notes -- Physics -- lab notes from work on Physics simulation

Lab notes and brainstorming and history of work on Physics.
Copied idea and file from AI work.
Started this file 2016-08-17 9:12 AM
Curt Welch -- curt@kcwc.com

================================================================================

Atomic Simulation project Overview

2016-08-18

I've never liked the answers produced by quantum physics.  The idea that
a photon is a particle and the whole wave particle duality seems broken
to me (as it has to many people over the ages).

The notion that photons "exist" is created by the fact that low level
energy is only seen being trasfered from source to target in small
quantized units we know of as the photon.  But an alternate answer
could be that the atom is only able to accept and relase energy in
these quantilized units.  This I believe might be explained by some
complex orbital mechanics of the atomic particls that makeup the atom.
My idea is that the chaotic behavior of orbital mechanics could create
natural strong attractors that force the orbital dynamics of the atom
in to fixed stable energy configurations and that when energy flows in
to try and change the state -- it will shed the energy back out to other
atoms, or absorb it by flipping to a different state.


I certaonly don't know much about the complexites of particle physics,
but the little I do know makes me think the answer to why atoms are
energy stable at different levels could be found in the complex orbital
dynamics.

So much so, that I think these orbital dynamics might be fully explained
buy simple newtonian physics.

So my starting experment is to model electons and protrons with newtonian
physics and with the known electrostaic field and see what sort of
complex dynamics show up.  And if that doesn't duplicate known phsical
effects of atoms -- look for alternative models that do create the needed
dynamics so as to explain the complexities of QM and particel physics
all as emerget properties of a simple atom, vs fundamental properties.

It seems to me that these two particles and the one electrostaic field
might be enough to explain all of physics -- making this the new simpliest
stander model of physics.

The neutron might be explainable as nothing more than a electon proton pair
in a tight very high speed oribit for example.  In Beta decay, a neutron
turns into an electron and a proton, plus extra energy.  To get an orbiting
pair to split apart, it would have to absorb energy from the rest of
the environment to force the electron into escape velocity from the proton.
That extran energy absorbed from the enviornment causes the kentic enrgy
of the electron and protron increase and as they flys away it induces heat
kentic energy into the sourounding material which is measured as the
"extra energy" in the experiment.

In this simple model, there is potential energy created by the force
fields of the em field, and kentic energy in the motion of the two
particles.  As the system evolves over time, it's trading off potential
and kentic enrergy.  But in my simple model, there is no speed of light
delay in the potential energy fields.  So every particle in the univese
is in constant instentainous connection with ever other.  All the motion
of the particles in the univese creates a constant background noise that
is seen in the changing force vector each particle experiences.

But for something like beta decay, the background noise of the entire
univese could peak at some point creating enough energy to tear the
particles apart.  This might be energy that is absorned from trillions
of articles spread over the entire univese -- but it shows up as a local
teraing of the pair apart -- and that local kentic energy, then causes
local kentic spread of energy seen as the "extra energy" of Beta decay.

So energy is conserved -- this works automatically in the normal
newtownian f=ma motion equations and the 1/r^2 force field, but it changes
from potential to kentic, where potential enegy flow in the universe may
have no speed of light limits but kenetic energy flow is limited by the
actual motion of particles.  (the particles carries it's kentic energy
with it as it moves).

If there is kentic energy in one particle, the speed at which it can be
tranfered into kentic energy of another particle, is limited by the time
delay effect of f=ma.  Which can mean, that even though the potential
engy of the em field is instenious, the flow of kentic energy could be
speed limited as one article passes it to another and to another.

So I want to work out the math and experment at the movement of kentic
enough in a system of these particles as well.  It could turn out that
the speed of lighit is the limit of kentic energy even though potential
energy effects have no speed limites.  Wich means this simple newtonian
phislcs model might have the power to epxlain the speed of light limits
we see -- without odd ideas like "space bending".  So is the speed of
light also just an emergent property of a far simpler atomic model?
I want to answre that as well.

Likewise, strong and weak fields I don't understand.  I don't know what
experimental data gave rise to the idea these fields exist. But they
seem to again, be effects that only happen inside the atom -- so a faulty
understanding of what's happening inside the atom, might give rise
to the notion that these other fields are needed to explain how the atom
works, when instead, simple newtonian physics will explain it all -- but
with highly complex orbital dynmics when these particles interact.

Likewise, I might have an answer to gravity as well.  If neutrons are
really e p pairs in a tight orbit, I wonder if a field of millions of
these will tend to synchronise their orbital speed?  If the em field
is instantanious why wouldn't they tend to synchronise thoughout the
entire univese?  And if two of these syncchronise their oribits so they
are orbiting in lock step it seems to me they will naturally tend to
attract each other.  When in the "ep   ep"  state, the 4 particles will
be pulled together.  Ever particle is closest to it's oposit so the the
sum of all forces pull them all together.  when in this config, 90 deg
later in the orbit:

e   e
p   p

The e and p are pulled otgether, but the other forces are near neutral
and cancel each other out.  If we sum all the forces over the full orbit
I think the resulting averge will create a  weak attractive  force.

Just as if we had this:

ep       e

The distant e will be attractred to the ep pair, even though the close
together ep pair mostly cancles each other out it has a weak attracted
force in this configuration as the differnce between the e and p fields
since p is close to the distant e, it dominates.

The very weak force of gracity, cold maybe be exlained as this weak
attraction of syncronised neutrons.

If this is what gravity really is, then it doesn't actually work on all
matter based on mass.  it only works on neutons based on weight and the
extra free electons and protons, then just get pulled along.

Or maybe, the entire atomic orbital dynamics end up being syncchronised
across the entire unviese, which makes the entire atom all weakly attract
each other in this same sort of statistical effect to explain gravity
as a weak attraction created by the more fundamental electrostaic field.

The spooky action at a distance is explained by the fact that there is
no speed of light limits to the electrostic field in this model. So when
we create "entangled" photon pairs, the photons don't actually exist
which is why we can't explain QM in terms of a state encoded into the
photons the state is encoded into the environmental field of atoms and
their highly complex group orbital dynamics that the test is done in.

So the entangled pair is really large clounds of atoms pushed slightly
out of balance from their perfered stable states -- so a very tiny bit
of extra energy is stored in each atom. The wave colapse event, is
where all this extra energy in the field is transfered to one atom that
indicates it has "received a photon" instentiously because the em field
is an instentious field.  But the entangled paricle is really two
large cloulds of out of balance kentic fields moving away from each other
at the speed of light and when on colapses it instantly chagnes the
balance of the other cloud -- causing it to coplase in a correlted
way later when it is "measured".

Likewise, if photons are an illusion crated by the group dynamics of
of atoms, and QM and speed of light, are emergent behaviors of this
simple system at the large scale of interacting atoms, then I susupect
all the word done on particle physics to "break down" particles to
simpler sub-atomic paritlces, is likely in question as well.  I don't
undestand particle phsics enough to have off the cuff answers to what
that are looking at, but some of the descripions of how the field
advanced -- that 1000's of particles seem to show up in tests, which
was then simplified down to the current model, makes me think what
they are uncovering is not simpler particles, but rather, more complex
emerget behaviros of large fields of atoms. They aren't getting simpler
they are getting more complex is my gut feeling.  This is even more
consistent whe they tal kabout the newer particles having higher
and higher mass -- implying they are in fact studying a large collection
of small paricls, andnot a new massive smaller praticle.

So, if this approach holds any water, it means we have to understand
the highly complex orbital dynamics of how groups of two simple particles
tend to interact.  And that is beyond what we can easilly describe
with math.  We can describe the differential equations that create it
easilly -- simple f=ma with constant mass for the e and p particles,
and the one simple electostatic force field.  But the complex orbtial
mechans (N body orbital mechans) is way beond what we can describe.

In fact, just getting started in this I've been looking into the math of
two body orbital mechanics and I've learned that even two body math is far
more complex than I thought. Though two body orbits are a simple ellips
(when in orbit), if we know the position and velocity of the two objects,
there is no direct solution to calcate the elipictal orbit formula. It
must be done with trial and error search like newtons methond.  If I
understand it correctly.  So fitting the answer to the problem, is like
fidning zeros of a 3 order poloynomal -- you have to use newton's method
to find them by serach - they can't be calucated directly.  Which is
no doubt why no one has been able to figure this out yet.  They didn't
have the math to explain the oribital mechanis of atoms -- so we hit
a wall using the math we could, to talk about it as a probablity cloud
of electons.

Using small time step approximations is the normal compuational
way to simulate this. But each time step make false assumptions, and
introduces error -- whcih them accumults and builds over time -- making
the simluation pointless -- just like trying to predict weithat -- you
need massive compution to come close, and then the simuatlion only works
for a few days at best before the error accumulate.

So, can we even simulate orbital mechans well enough to accuratley
demonstate emergent properties that duplicate physics experment data
and prove the underling model is correct? Maybe we can't?  Maybe the
best we can do is show that it might be correct?

But none the less -- this project is an attempt to explore this
possiblit -- that a ver simple two particle and one field standard
model might have the ability to explain all of physics.  And if a model
that simple doesn't explain, maybe somthing just a little but more
complex will do the same?

Curt Welch
curt@kcwc.com

================================================================================

[This section written to notes in AI then duplicated here as well]

2016-08-17 8:08 AM Wednesday

Been distracted by life for 5 months and have done no work on this.
Just lots of procrastination.  Did spring fling and Blacksmithdays May.
Julie came home from school and we went to the shore early in the summer.
Got hooked watching That 70's show on Netflix at the shore with Julie,
came how and watched the entire show and then got hooked on Orange is the
new Black and watched all the current seaons of that.  4 Seasons maybe?
Then I started on rewatching old shows -- Buffy, Angel, Person of
Interest, Blacklist (the first seaons and a half I have not seen).  Oh,
back at the beggining of the year I watched all the MythBusters shows --
recorded the marathon they ran between Christmas and NewYears and took
months to finish.

Haven't worked at Mount Versnon since December -- told them I was
working on AI.  Newsreader is shut down -- so my life is amazingly empty.
Running out of money and that has be scared and confused about what to do.
Desparately want to have my life back and be out from under the control
of the wife, but I'm not really sure how to do that, since I don't want
to deal with moving all my shit out of the house and don't know where
I'll end up becuase I need money which means a job which means deciding
just want I want to do -- move to London, SF?  Try a nationwide job hunt?

Endless hours wasted on facebook -- lots of debates about Basic Income,
and the like.  Got kicked out of one of my favorate groups which was on
technological unemployment beuase I was aggressively arguing against the
idea of a resouce based economy.  That left me feeling frustated angry,
said, and empty as well. But I got over that.  Then there's this endless
crap with Trump and the election comming up.  OMG.  That adds even more
stress to my life to have to see that.

Came to a new understannding at some point as well about arguing on
Facebook.  Many of the people I argue with about these high level ideas
really aren't able to understand what I'm talking about.   It's this
detail brain vs abstract big thinking brain thing that allows some of us
to see the big picture while others are stuck looking only at the details.
It's why people don't get that RL is the solution to AI. It's why all
these conservatives don't understand climate change.  It's why all my
big theoires that I find so intersting, like about conscioness, just
seems to go over people's heads.  I always felt that all I had to was
explain it well enough, and they would understand it. But I realie now,
some of them just can't understand it no matter how well you explain it.
They arelaly are trail and error learns and have such weak abstraction
skills they can't grasp the high level concepts I'm trying' to share.
So I need attention to stroke my ego, but I'm wasting my time trying to
get it from people that can't understand the ideas.

The deabtes on facebook often leave me feeling empty and worthless
and mad at the world.  A few times someone will really enjoy a post of
mine and that's what keeps me going -- but so much is just so wasted.
Seems to be a net loss -- but I'm so desparate for attention and have
nothing else in my life to fill the hole.

The past few weeks I've been debating with Tague on facebook about
Basic Income -- trying to share the "capital income is evil" idea but
he can't undestand it.  He only sees captial income as the driving
force of captialism and thinks GDP would suffer if we tried to reduce
or eliminate it.  The way I explain it is certaonly over the top, which
mislead him, but even when I backtrack and try to make clear the issue
I'm talking about, I don't get any traction with him.  Again, another
person too focused on details to see the bigger picture.

I've been really feeling paranoid and fearful and anxious which is part
of why I've not gotten back to AI.  I think a big part of this that I've
not realized was the damage Vecana did to me -- really left me scarred
with a capitaism sort of PTSD emoitnal damage that prevents me from
even thinking about sending out resemues and trying to get a job again.
I think that is more of what I'm afraid of than I'm able to admit.  If I
run out of money I have to face that fear again and I'll do anything to
escape that -- including making up stories about what else my problem
really is.

Which is why no doubt the idea of a Basic Income is so attractive to me
and why I push it so much -- I can unrstand the damage now of what it's
like to live beliving you can't get good work.

Oh, other news -- got the Liver Biosphy done -- they confirmed it was
NASH -- inflamation and scaring in the Liver from too much fat buildup.
My weight is around 230 now -- nothing but slowly getting fatter all since
last winter -- which I stopped riding my bike.  Was waiting for it to warm
up to ride, but it went from the 60, to the 90's almost overnight it felt,
and we have had endless fucking days if 100 degree weither and when not
that hot, in the 90's most the time.  Haven't been able to talk myself
into biking.  Oh, got the the LIPO packs, wired them up and tried them.
Seem to work, but the higher voltage cauess the stall on start which is
a bitch -- not having the power to get started from a stop.  Bought the
25A controller but haven't installed it. That might change the stall at
stop behavior.  Just haven't been motivated to get out -- but I really
need expercise and I'm not getting it.

Pogemon Go came out and I swtiched to it and stopped Ingress.  Up to
level 27 (of 40) so far.  Another great time waster.  My days start with
me waking up at 5 am type frame in a panic about life.  Forcing myself
to sleep and not getting up until 10 or later.  facebook in the morning.
Out to get coffee and play pokomon around none.  Back home for facebook.
Maybe pizza but I've not been doing that a lot.

But the progress on AI has been great when I was working on it before.
I've got a percpecption algorithm that should be able to do great things.
And an RL that seems cool -- but I need to figure out how to link them
together beter.  Or maybe do RL in a slightly different way to make
it compatible with the percpetion learning? Andit all works with this
cool time based activity trace system that seems like it might sovle the
temporal problem question and implement prcpeiton correctly!  But I need
to do lots of testing on that.

Oh, and Physics.  Which is why I came to this file today to start with.

Some facebook debates got me to dig into physics and QM deeper than
I have in the past that got me a better understanding of the actualy
tests that have been done for things like the double slit.  This got me
back to my old ideas that the physics has failed to understand the inner
workings of the atom, and that all the complexity they document in the
QM and other formulas really are emergent propeties of a far simpler
system they have missed.  That wave particle duality is an illuion
created by the lack of measurement tools -- we have reached the bottom
of the ladder in terms of measurement -- and a they try to understand
the measurements they are getting they are modeling the measument system
interaction with atoms instead of modling atoms.  And I think the atom
is far simpler than what they assume.

I think that simplicity can be found by modling the interaction of atomic
particles.  Pohtons are probabkly not real. The discret behavior of energy
transfer from source to receiver is due to us using atoms to measure the
recpetion of energy -- and the fact that it's quantized and belive to be
likel due to the a proprty of the atom as an energy receiver, not due
to a property of light itself.  I tihnk light is nothing more than the
em field and is not quntized, and is not limited by the speed of light.

If we build an accurate simualtion of atomic particles I think we will
find they form strong attractors that lock them into different but
complex orbital paterns that cause the quantization effect.  Energy is
only transfered from one atom to another when they get "pushed" enough
to escape the attractor.

And I think that the EM fields can be instentanious and not limited
by the speed of light, but that the flow of kentic energy that is
time delayed by the differential equation effect of force and motion,
is what has the speed of light effect -- alone with the quantum effect
of measurment that means the receiving atom can't chagne state untill
a threshold has been reached -- so as the speed at which the threashold
can be broken could be the speed of light.

So I need to experiment with models of the atom and see if I can find
a simple set of rules to explain it all.

And one option, is that the only real particles are electons and
protrons and the only real field is the EM field.  Neutrons might must
be a thighly coupled proton and electon in a tight high speed orbit.
Photons are just a measurement illusion.  Neutrons might tend to all self
syncronize so that they all end up in the same frquency orbit creating
a resonating vibration thoughout the entire univese of all the neutrons
being syncronized.

And, I have to wonder if synchronized neutrons might attract each other.
And be the answer to what graivty is -- not a serpate field, but just
the EM attrction of nutonrs.  Is it possible that this is gravity and
that it only actually attracts nturons?

The key here is to simulate the interction and see if atoms form the
same way they do in real life.

I've shared this idea with Tague and Chappell -- Tague acts like I'm a
idiot and he's just being nice to me.  Chappell was currious.

But I wrote a python program to do the basic math many months back. But
it was hard to visualize what was happening.

And the first thing I realiized was that I thought simlation would be
easy (just newtonian F-ma stuff), but it was not simple at all.  It blows
up with simulation errors very fast once an electon and protron get too
close together.  The closer together they are, the smaller the time step
you have to use to keep excess error from accumulating.  But if all you
have is one electon and one prograon, and the start with no velocity,
they fall straight together and colide and then pass though each other (my
model allows that) but as they pass, the force adn speed go asmtopic and
the simutiion looses all accracy and what should be a simple ossolator,
shoots off an electon into to space.

So, been looking at the math, but got discurated when I realied how
fucking hard obital mechanics acutaly is!  There isn't even a direct
solution to the simple two body problem -- it requires finding roots
of equations using newton's method!  And that's only for the two body
problem.  For the N body problem it's a diaster.

So the hope is that I don't have to get it correct, but only need to
get it close tnough to show the emergent behavior.

But yesterday I spent a few hours and got graphics working so I can do
I visual display of the particles and now I can see what is happening
much better!  But what happens is that the simaution acts sort of normal
for a bit, then an electon gets too close to a proton, the accuracy
goes to hell and the electon ends up being shot into space.  So I need
to find a way to do the math to stop that.

I have a Physics directory, but no notes file for it, so I came here to
the AI work to copy the format of the file I was using here.  But them
started to do all this writing about life.  So I'll copy this back to
the Physics directory, and start a file for the Phyusics work.

Julie is almost ready to go back to school. Wnats to go pick up a TV
today.  Wnats my help. She and Pig went to Cleavelend to see baseball
and rock and roll hall of fame.  I stayed home. But tyey want to go to
Baltimore today for ball -- I'm going but will play Pokemon in the inner
harbor instead.  Or something like that.

Wanted to a bit of work on Physics so I got up before 8AM to shower and
do Physics work.  First time I've been moti vated to get up in a long
time now. Feels sort of good.

[9:09 AM]

----

Now writting to Physics notes file.

Other life issue -- due to liver, I've decided to only get Starbucks on
M, W, F. S.  Cut back to 4 days a week and see if that helps weight and
cut back on fat?  But today is Wed so I get coffee today!

On physcis, wanted to check if momentum is conserved in my code.  Assued
it wasn't, but on second thought, I should be prefectly conserived if
I update all the forces in lock step.  But maybe I wasn't.

Now that graphics is working, I can attack this problem of finding out
how to code a simulation without losing all accurcy. The greaphcs code
is a hacked mess, and will need cleaning up, but first more hacking and
messing just to learn how to code it.

Had the idea to change mass of proton to be 2x electon to make eveything
move faster to get better read on whether simulation code is working.

[9:17 AM]

----

[9:24 AM]

Ok, checked code.  Changed mass of p to be 2x e.  Made ep pair orbit
each other.  Seems to work.

Checked code. It does update all the forces first, then the v and poistion
so montum should be prefectly perseved in the simaultion.  Need to write
code to calculate it and verify just to be sure. But first, starbucks run.

----

[11:33 AM]

Went to starbucks, got drink for jules and myself.  Ordered mine
incorrectly.  Forgot to add no-water.  Been playing on facebook like
normal.  Wrote suggestion to Starbucks about being able to pick from
past order menu when doing add item.  Hope they add this some day.
Julie is almost ready to go to Best Buy to hunt for TV.  I'll try to
add momentum check...

----

[12:06 PM]

Added momentum test -- current code does as expected matain perfect
conservation of momentum.  Added code to normalize to zero at start to
keep from drifting off screen.

----

[2:10 PM]

Back from Best Buy run with Julie to pick up new TV for school. Wrote
another facebook post about consciousness.  Back to code.


Need to do more testing with an electon that blows up -- what to verity
that momuntum is truely maintained.

----

Ok, confirmed that momentum stays near zero.  Rounding errors show up and
accumulate, but the number remains in the e-40 range even when electons
run into protons and fly away.

So as we are coding it, monumum is maintained, but energy is not!

So it seems we might need some sort of search with each update, that
adjusts for errors in energy, and and then adjust for errors in monumtum,
until a solution is converged on?

Seems hard and slow.  But I need to explore that.

But first, going to add some collsion detection with the wall to force
electons that have gone flying off to stop and stay on the screen.
Just for the fun of it and to allow the system to keep running.

----

[2:54 PM]

Got collision detection working.  I make it bounce and lose half it's
power.  Fun to watch the electons fly around now and try to get back
in orbit.  But every time it gets too close it will sling shot out to
the wall.

So I need to stop the sligshot error.

Heading to baltimore now

================================================================================

2016-08-18 11:37 AM Thursday

Yesterday

1) set up this Notes file from the AI file and wrote a lot of history

2) Checked conservation of momuntum and realised the step updates always
gurantted conservation already.  So that's not a new constraint to add.
But if we fudge velocity or position to try and maintain conservation
of energy it will break conservation of monuntum --- so these are two
things we can optimize the system against to try and create more accuracy.

3) Added code to make starting monumum of the entire system zero so the
particles do not drift off the screen no matter what starting values
they have for speed.

4) Added collision detection and bounce with 50% energy loss at edge of
screen to allow the system to keep running after an electon is thrown
out of the park due to the simulation errors when e and p become too
close together.

Today

1) Want to work on the simulation error that causes electons to fly off
the screen.  I think energy conservation by adjusting velociy to match
force might do it.  Don't know how much that might mess up other issues.

The other option is to take smaller and smaller time steps as the
distance is smaller and the force and speed becomes larger.  Maybe just
set dt each time after calclating forces based ont he force before doing
the savement update?  Or based on speed?  That would be easy to code.
And would be self adjusting in terms of allowing the simulation to take
larger steps and run faster when the ep were not too close together.

Maybe just distance vs speed so that he distance doesn't change by more
than 1% in any step?  Need speed and min distance for each particle to
do that?

2) Or, Use energy conservation to adjust velocity after each step.
I'm not even 100% that's valid in a system of lots of particles.  I have
to experment with that.  Could then re-normlaize all velocities to set
momentum back to zero?  Need to play with this and get abetter idea of
how conservation of energy works.

----

Did Baltimore last night. Got over 10K steps by iPhone count for the
first in a year.  Heavy rain after dark waiting for Baseball game to end
-- was rain delaied but they called it in the end.  Got two new pokemon
beucase of the work -- the upgraded flapping on side fish that upgraded
to a dragon!  400 candy needed.  But each fish caught comes with 3 candy
and returning it in gives 1 so only 100 fish needed to be caught total
to get to the 400 range.

And I caught the snake/dragon like guy in it's upgraded form, plus
got enough of the non evolved ones to evole a second.  Almost finished
level 27.

Ate too much waiting in the rain so I gained a pound even after all
that exercise.  But it was good to get some exercise again -- legs
hurt from the walking -- it was very hot and humid as well so I was
sweatting a lot.  Took my bike backpack to carry drink and rain gear.
But that did make me a bit hoter.

Thursday -- so first no starbucks day for me.  Just have to do normal
coffee. But now I don't have the excuse to go out and pokemon on the
way to starbucks...

Leaving to take Julie back to school in Greensboro tomorrow.  Pig and
Julie will round down in Julie's car, and I will follow with more stuff
in mine later in the day.  Pig and I will then ride back.  Stay down
two days.

Need to go get haircut today.  I guess pokemon when I do that?

----

Just wrote the overview at the top of the file.

----

[5:29 PM]

Spent lots of time writting facebook posts about consciousness.  Then
went off and got a hair cut and vitamen E per the liver doctor.  800 iu
per day -- so 2x 400iu pills a day.

Gave Milton $20 for first time.  Normally the cut is $12 and I give a
few dollars tops.  I think haircuts are $13 now, but I decided I really
need to share more money with him so I've upgraded to giving him $20
a cut.  Been using Miltion for many years now becuse he was cheap and
simple.  And becuase he wasn't an asian that was hard to understand. :)

Didn't play much pokemon.  Just grapped a few on the way there and back.

Now, fixing lasagne for dinner.  But while it's in the microwave, a few
thoughts...

On the energy conservation.  If the sun stands still, and the orbiting
object moves though the static field (or static frame of refence with
the sun at the center), then I think we have a normal trade off between
kentic and potential energy as I wrote in the formula in the code
that I got from somewhere.

Looking at code, I find the formula I'm using for kenetic energy is
just the same as the force forumula for two objects distance x apart.

It's no-directed, but it's signed, with postive for repelling forces
and negative for attractive forces.

Darn, I don't understand this.

Ok, right, force is ke/d^2, but potential energy is just ke/d.  Which is
sort of like mgh mass gravity height.

It wasn't the same!  I didn't look careful enough.

So, from the frame of referecne of one charge being the center or 0
point when the the other charrge moves it velocity will change.

But when both move (we are using a frame of reference not located at
ether charge), the total velocity change of both combined matches the
change in potential energy I think.

So I think this means, that when we look at the change of potential
energy of a give particle relative to all others, and the change in it's
kenetic energy, we won't find they match?  Beause the other particles
moved as well?

Yeah, I don't really understand the math here.  Need to study it until
I do/.  But first, just add some debug to the code and see if for a
simple two particle test, how the ke and pe of each particle changes to
understand what's happening.  Yeah, the two particles will obrit around
each other, and will both speed up as they get closer, and slow down
as they get further away.  So the ke has to increase in both but the
pe measured once between the two, offset both those changes I think.
Need to confirm this.  But lasagne is wating.  And TV.

[6:04 PM]

================================================================================

2016-08-19 9:20 AM Friday

Yesterday

1) Lots of notes and thinking about the simulation error problem. No
code chagnes.

Today

Have to drive to Greensboro soon.  But want to get a little work done
first.

----

Added normalizing of total PE so it starts at 1.0 so I can see how it
changes easier.

Tested two electons and two protons alone to check sign issues and the
total E worked for both -- stable.  It jumps suddenly when it bounces
on a wall.

Oh, if course, total e changes on a bounce becuase I cut the speed
in half!  Otherwise it would not change!

Checked code by turnning off loss of energy and then a bounce doesn't
mess up total energy.

Testing one e p pair with no starting velocity. Should fall together
and pass thorugh and oscillate.  But every time it passes though the
simulation messes up.  So lets try to fix this by changing velocity to
make total E constant.

But do it one step at a time.  That is, calculate total e for a single
particle move it and update velicty using total e for that particle
(wihtout moving others).

----

Much better behavied with new energy adjustment but still has clear
problems.  I coded it to record kenetic energ first, update velicty
using force, move particle then update veloicty using new poetential
energy to match what the erngy was at the start -- keeping direction of
velocty as calculated in the update.

But errors do still creep in.  Energy is 2.1 now after multiple wall
bounces that took energy out (instead of 1.0).

[10:16 AM] must stop playing and drive to Greensboro now.

On two particles with no velocity test, the electons fall though the
protron and seems to act correctl. But when it gets to the far side it
gets stuck.  Something with a zero velocoy not changing sign or something.
Need to debug when I get back.

It's odd that the system seems to work correctly in orbits, but in this
simple back and forth x only test it's going all crazy!

================================================================================

2016-08-22 1:03 PM Monday

Yesterday

1) Last worked Friday.  Tried first hack at improving code by doing single
particle updates with perservation of energy.  That seemed to help in
some cases like tight orbits but didn't make the single dimension two
particle problem oscillate correctly.

Today

Spent the weekend moving Julie back into her new place for school. She's
in a 4 bedroom apartment with 3 friends this year.  Drove down 29 for
the first time all the way there.

Feeling really tired lately.  Not sure why.  Not sleeping well.
Staying in bed too long as well.  Maybe just depression/fear crap.
Maybe I'm fighting a mild flu like thing or something.  Oh well.

Read a facebook post about Stephen Hawking declaring that black holes
don't exist -- that they don't have a boundry where nothing gets out.
That this old notion is incompatible with QM.  And that since we haven't
merged QM and gravity, we don't have an a full understanding of what
is going on.  So that's cool.  One of the problems I had with this e p
theory was that it was hard to explain black holes since the EM field
would not be limited by gravity.

Idea.  If the attraction we call gravity turns out to be an EM effect of
e and p in orbit syncchronizing with each other -- what happens when they
get highly dense in a black hole?  Coould it be that they pack tighter
together and increase in frequency and no long syncronize?  That would
seem to indicate the gravity would stop even if all the matter near the
core is syncchronizsed and attracting to each other?

No clue really.  I just need a good simlation working to get a better
understanding of the group behavior of these particles and see if we can
explain all of physics as complex group behavior of electons and protrons.

So, on to the simulation problem.

This is an odd total system problem I don't know how to address.

I can start with a given set of position and veloctiy vectors.  Then do a
dt update of the position assuming constant velocity.  Then check total
kenetic and potentital energy of the new configuartion and calcuate the
error. But how do I then distribute the error over all the particles?
Fixing error by adjusting velocity seems the easiest.  But does constant
momentum break whemn we do that?  I assume so.  I need to verify that.
And if the ending velocity is different from the beginning velocity, then
assuming constant velocityy over the dt peroid is not a very good model.
So should we them go back and do the dt postiion update again. assuming
velocity changes from the starting to the ending vector in a linear
fashion (chaning the step model to one that connects stratight lines?)?
But then the ending potential energy will be different, and we would
need to repeat.  If we keep repeting, will the system get closer and
closer to a more valid configuation?

I have no clue.  So I guess I just have to try coding something and
seeing how it works.  Or, attack from the theory direction of tryingt
to understand a theory.

My concern, is that most the error that creeps in, will likely come from
two particles that have gotten very close together, so most the error
correction should be applied to those two particles, instead of spreading
it over all particles.  I wonder if there's a straight forward way to
identify how much error comes from each particle and then distribute
the total error adjust based on that?  But if this was easy we could
just adjust each particle by it's error and be done with it.

Ah, if we look at the system from a new frame of reference, relative
to a single particle, might this help us determine something?  So the
velocity of each other particle is the sum of it's velocity and the
velocity of the reference particle.  And then we can check to see how
much the potential energy changed vs the velocity.  Ah, that makes it
simple if there are only two particles, but not with N beucase all the
other still interact with each other as well.  The entire system needs
to converge back to a new consistent solution after each dt step.

Ok, so lets just learn more about this by doing.  The trick I tried Friday
of doing it one particle at a time works for some cases, but the hard
case of two particles in a straight line doesn't work at all. Something
odd happaned when they were both movinbg in the same direction at the
same time.  Maybe that's related to the falure to maintain constant
momentum (they never should have been moving int the same direction at
the same time)!

But, lets just do this.  Calcuate total energy.  Ajust particles.
Recalucate -- find total e error.  Then fix total error by adjusting
all the velocities.  if the v adjust can be done in a monumum mainting

way that might be a good first step.

----

[3:16 PM]

Changed code to calculate total energy change after move, and then adjust
all the kenetic energy to force energy back to zero.  Found that the
sentKeneticEnergy() function I was using in the last test was broken! It
was using v^2 instead of v to ajust velocities with and that was adding
an error.  For a 2 particle test, this new code seems to keep energy
constant.  For 4 particle test, it was blowing up and crasing when
trying to do a sqrt of negative KE.  Don't know why yet.

Could go back and try single particle updates again to see what happens
when I use a working setKeneticEnergy function.  Maybe.

But lets dig deeper into what's happening here first.  I fear the problem
is that the PE and KE change is so great that it can't be fixed by
only changing KE.  So it's trying to make KE negative to adjust for
too great a PE -- which can't work.

----

When dt is too large the system still does a good job of mainting const
energy. But with a single pair, the long eleptical orbit will turn into
a random spirograph like effect due to accumuting error -- then it tends
to drift to a circular orbit -- more circular less error and the more
it stays in a circular orbit I think maybe.  Momentum does accumulate
error in this test but not a lot e-37 from e-40 starting error.

----

Yes, went back to 4 particles and that is what the problem was. The total
energy change was greater than what could be fixed by velocity alone. So
it was trying to set negative kenetic energy.  But why does that happen?
It means the position is an impossible one I guess.  Electon has moved
too far away from other other particles creating too great a potential
nergy -- so setting v to zero still leaves the system in a state that
is impossible to reach.  But, how to cope?  Reduce DT in half when this
happens and restart the last move over again?

let me just limit the adjust so that when when it needs to set ke to
less than zero, just change it to set it to small postive number and
whatch what happens?

----

[6:21 PM]

Been playing with the code for hours.  found and identified some bugs.
Added the excessEnergy system as a hack to cope with the constant energy
adjustment when KE is not large enough to adjust all the excess PE out.
So it tries to suck KE out over time.  But when an electon gets thrown
way off screen, the PE is just crazy and by constantly sucking the
KE of the electon that's standing still, it hardly moves and as such,
never takes the PE out...

The concept of total Enegy is sort of bogus with the fact that potential
enough is always negative between a E and a P.

Between an E and E or P and P the potential energy is like a wound up
spring that will convert it's stored energy into kenetic energy.  So the
postive number represents how much ke will be created by pushing the
particles apart to infinity.  In attraction mode, it reprsents how much
negative has been taking out from going to infinity to it's current orbit.

The PE function puts the energy at 0 at infinity.  But the energy becomes
infinity when the e and p cross.  Which is just a real computation
problem.

Wait, is the potential energy from a fixed distance to zero always
infinite for attraction?  I guess it is.  And for the reverse.  So the
sum from a fixed distance to infinity is always a constant, and the same
for both, but just a different sign. But when they get too close together,
it all gets to be a diaster.

I wonder if using log(e) might help somehow?

The the compuatation problem remains a problem when particles get too
close toether -- or worse, when they cross in the perfect straight
line exmaple.

Hum,  What if I limit the force to some max value that sets an inner
limit on force field? Ugh, I guess that breaks conservation of enargy
for one. Oh, but maybe it diesn't.  Maybe all that's needed is that the
force field be continous to maintain conservation???

It would mean max potential energy is not infinite at the center but some
fixed amount as well.  And I could then make the potentla energy zero for
two overlaping e and p particles making totale in the system inteligent.
The question of course is how much would it mess up the simulation from
a system that didn't have that limit?  If most particles were outside
of the distrotion space most the time, maybe not so much?

But it would limit how close and e and p could become in a tight orbit.

Maybe that's an approach.  However, the main problem is that the
simluation goes crazy when they get too close and I should be able to
fix this.  It's due to the dt time not plotting the new position and
v correctly.  The new position is totally out of line with the new v.
And I've tried just addjusting the v to fix, and that helps, but doesn't
address the problem of when the position is way out of line.

So I guess I need to adjust position as well as V when doing the error
adjustment. Or maybe adjust DT to fix position, and then just use V
adjstment to fix energy?  So maybe, look at how much we have to adjust
velocity (ke) to fix energy and if that's over some % amount, reduce dt
and try again? And if it's under a threshold, raise it and try again to
speed simulation back up?

That sounds like an approach I need to try.  Auto adjusting DT seems
like a viable approach -- as long as one e p pair doesn't get stuck
in such a tight loop that it needs a very very small dt which slows
the entire simulation down to a crawl.  But with a larger simauiton,
the total system noise might well prevent that form being possible.

Ok, that's the next thign to try then. But I need to figure out what I'm
doing for food now...

[6:50 PM]

----

Of course, kept playing.  Set up two pairs in sync orbit, and noticed
they started to move towards each other -- gravity!  But also noticed
that they don't tend in general to stay syncronized when playing with
three.  And my simulation blows up when they get too close and start
swapping electrons.  So I still need to fix the simulation before I
can get any decent idea of how these work in groups...

The dt auto-tune seems useful, but it strikes me as not being able
to fix this core problem of an e diving towards a lone p and having
a near collision followed by a simulation blow up.  The system needs
to catch the case of one e being too close to one P and not just
reducing DT, but adjusting the veloctiy/position so when it comes
out the other side it's got the right energy.

This might be an issue of adjusting v and p not just v to correct
for energy, and to use an algorithm of adjusting p that correctly
does most the work for the one that is the most broken to automatially
catch this.

So I think step one is to think about the process of calcuationg
new p(position) and v (velocity), then fixing the ending v to fix
energy. But then go back and redue to position calculation baesd
on the new average v and again, once again calculate the new
ending v to fix energy and see if this convergers.

----

[10:49 PM]

Was thinking about how I was coding the updates and realized I was
probably doing it wrong to start with.  If I know the current position,
velocity, and accelearation, and I want to update for a time period of
DT, what I'm doing now is updating the veloicty by the accelearation,
then assuming the new velocity stays the same for DT.  If we assume
constant acceleaqation (a simplification), then the velocity will
change form it's current value to the new value, over the full DT period.

So if it starts at 10 mph, and accelarates for an hour at 1 mph per hour,
then it will be 11 mph at the end of an hour.  But it's final position
will not be 10 miles down the road or 11, it will be something between
10 and 11.  Will it be 10.5?  Let me check the math. Yes, it will!

So I shouldn't have been using the starting or ending velocity, I should
have been using the average.

Oh, but I know the ending acceleration as well!  So I can do even better
by adjusting the ending position to account for both the changing velocity
and the changing acceleration.  The math gets tricker to do that.  But
I can assume a linear change from the starting to ending accelearation
as well.  And that requies itteration.

So to start, the first guess at how posoition will change, should be
pased on known position, velocity, and acceleration, with the assumption
acceleration will be constant over the range.

Then I can itterate, by finding the ending acceperation, and then 
doing it again, assuming acceleration will change over that period in
a linear way. And keep repeating until it converges maybe?  And if
it's not converging, dt may need to be smaller?

No clue. But let me code the first step and see what that does.

================================================================================

2016-08-23 11:24 AM Tuesday

Yesterday

1) Coded system to adjust velocity after update to fix conservation of
energy.  Found this couldn't always work if the position was too far off.
So did a hack that tracked total error fixed it later as the electron
came back to the protrons.  Stupid approach, but I was just playing.

2) found my setKenetic was broken as I coded it before and fixed
it. Played a lot to learn more about how it all works.

3) realized I really wasn't doing the basic update correctly.
The velocity should be understood as the current velocity and the
acceleration created by the force will slowly change it over the comming
DT period resulting in a different velocity at the next point.  But the
velocity will chagne from one to the next and the chagne in psotion will
be based on not the the starting or ending velociety, but the average
over that period. So I fixed the code to do it that way.

But the fix seems to work less well.  Odd.  Not sure why.  Eleptical
orbits were quickly turning into circular orbits instead of staying
eleptical as they should.

4) Changed bounce to reduce total ke by 1/4 instead of reducing only the
dimension that bounced by half.  This is a true half speed bounce now.
Wasn't before.

5) Changed "total energy" debug that was divided by starting energy to
normalize to make it subtract starting energy instead. But that doesn't
work either.  Made me realizse that the total energy concept is bougus,
because the total potential energy of an e p pair is always infinite --
total ke that will be generated as it falls together is infinite. So there
is no simple concept of total energy in a given configuaiton of the system
-- it's always infinite.  Energy in a ee pair or pp pair however is finite
beause the total KE generated as they fly apart is finite not infinite.

Today

Will keep working on the simulation algorithm to understand how to make
it it work better.

Ideas

1) Make sure the average velocity algoirthm is coded correctly and
compare to the old alogirhtm.

2) Maybe take more care in setting up a system to test how well different
algoirthms work -- like ploting a short path with high accuracy using
very short DT, then using long DT, see how well different algorithms track
the correct path.  The complex trade off is finding what algoirthm is the
most effecent for producing a given level of accuracy in the simulation.

3) Need the system to know when it's not working so it can either reduce
dt or just report the max error or something.

4) Updating velocity alone doesn't work when e and p get too close.
One close land next together causes the pair to shoot off at too high a
velocity making the next estimated location way beyond what can be fixed.
So I eithr need to take another itteration to adjust position, or detect
the problem, and reduce dt and repeat.

5) The way I spread energy error over the particles is not good.
I think I do it based on how much Kenetic energy is in each particle?
So the largest kenetic energy particle gets the most error adjustment?
But I think I need to do it based on an estimate of which particle has
the most error.  Which might mean the most change in acceleartion --
or the largest acceleration?  or the largest acceleation vs velocity?
I think I can do better than what I'm currently doing.  Largest _change_
in kenetic energy might be the ticket?  Or largest change in velocity that
includes a shift in direction as well?  Ah, check for the total change in
each of the three dimentions so even if total ke doesn't change becuse
magnatude of V doesn't change, if it points 90 degrees in a different
direction, it's a large change?

6) Will certaonly have to do multiple itterations on estimating the next
posoiton and velociety to keep accuracy better. Either by reducing DT to
get the next step closer to correct, or just itterating over different
starting and ending position, velocity and accelearation numbers  until
the energy error converges to zero.  Would be nice if I could just keep
itterating and converging to make it go to any level of accuracy I desire.

----

[12:49 PM]

Ok, testing code, didn't understand why enegey was not staying at zero.
It's becuase I had turned off the energy adjusting code!  Duh.  Turned it
on and got it working better.

Rewrote the energy adjust to just use the starting energy of the system
as the reference value that makes it all far simpler.

This new algoirthm turns elepical orbits into round ones very quickly
if the dt is too large. Odd.  The old algorithm that was "worse" didn't
do that as quickly I don't think.

And still, by adjusting energy only, it can't fix the problem of position
being way off when a simulation step for an electon lands too close to
proton and causes it to shoot out into space.  Smaller dt steps can't
fix that if if the pasts cross.  It can fix it if they don't cross as
long as the dt steps makes the closest appraoch accurate still.

So to allow them to cross I must update position as well as velocity
and try to get the two to converge on the best answer.

So, let me first code the position update.

----

[1:28 PM]

Wrote code to speed up and slow down simulation by cutting dt in half or
by doubling it.  Wrote reset to allow the current step to be backed up
and repeated.  Triggers a slow down if the total energy error is large
compared to the total ke.  Speeds up if it's small and has been small
for 10 steps. It's cool that the DT value is now self regulating.


Running this with 3 ep pairs has been stable for some time now.  No blow
ups. The relative position of the three protons seem very fixed.
Not driving together or apart as seen in the past.  Each electon is
staying fixed to it's proton.

Orbits are eliptical and are remaning that way, though their shape and
direction is in constant slow flux as the three interact with each other.

Dt is hanging around 4e-18 range.

Speed of each orbit seems roughly fixed as well no tendency for some to
go into wide orbit as others cirucle down to tight orbit.

But the three orbits certainlyu are not well syncchronized either.
Just close toether in speed. It feels like the three electons are pushing
each other back and forth but keeping the group in synce.  Maybe after
running for a lot longer it will change?  Or is it sable?

----

After more running, there is a tendency of the protons to move together
but it could be noise vers long term tendency.  Spacing is 4.99 4.98 and
9.98 vs 5 5 and 10.  Electons are still behaving themslves and sticking
to their own protons.

----

[2:36 PM]

Tested three pairs with extra energy in one electron that drives it to
the wall very quickly. The bounce that takes energy out was being seen
as a simulation error so I had to update the systems total energy on
the bounce.  But it took me a while to make that work due to globals not
working as expected in Phthon.  But it's cool becuase the extra energy
makes the system go craxy and fling off an electon multiple times to
hit the wall untkl enough enough has been sucked out of the system to
allow it to stablize at which time each electron pairs up with a proton
in stable somewhat syncrhronized orbits!

This is all working much better with the auto ajusting dt code now. Or at
least it seems to be. And even when the systme is going crazy, electons
will drive down into a protron, and the simulation will have to slow
way down to deal with it, but it does, and it moves on, then in time,
the orbits aren't passing that close to the center.

But I've been avoiding the hard test of them passing through each other.
Guess I need to go ahead and try that.

Also, when the bounce was broken it got into a steady state of decreasing
dt until it turned zero.  That could happen in theory if a proton and
electon got to close to each other and the simulation would lock up --
or bomb.  I don't test or cope with that yet.

----

Oh damn, going back to one pair it becomes obvious that this simulation
alogirhtm can't hold an eleptical orbit.   It quickly builds up error
that turns it into a circulare orbit. Well, I'll have to do better than
that. That probably helps these three pairs remain stable.

BTW, the tree pairs I started some time back, is continusing to see the
protons move closer together. 5.97 4.95 and 9.93.  This is three in a
row BTW.

----

Ok, one pair, zero velocity -- triggers divide by zero on the speed
up and slow dwon test.  Which I fixed.  Then the electon falls to the
proton, and the dt goes to e-42 and the simulation seems to freeze.
Even though dt is not zero, I suspect there is a rounding error that
hasn't just slowed it down to be very slow, but has actually caused it
to stop changing the state.  So it's getting stuck.

But if I give it a y veloctiy of 1 (vs 16000 the normal needed to make it
orbit, it works.  It dives in, the simuation slows way down to something
small, and it bounces back out -- and it loops maybe 10 times like this
before the orbit widens out into a circle.

So as long as there isn't a perfect overlap, this system can handle
it. But the default error seems to be going wide on a tight turn now,
which turns eliptical orbits into circles very fast.

In anything more complex than the worse case of two particles falling
stright towards each other along one axes, the system will problly not
get hung like this ever.  Let me test two particles starting at zero
velocity, but not on the same axes and see if simply the rounding error
of the two axes creates enough difference to make it not hang!

----

[3:18 PM]

Looking nice.  System still hung when the two e p started at an angle
from each other.  They would fall together and the simulation would slow
to dt of e-45 and stop making progress.

But, I limited de to be e-30 and no smaller than that, and then it works.
Sort of. It falls together, slows down to e-30, then either pops out the
other side or pops back out the same side.  But when starting with not y
velocity, it seems to stay stuck in that falling in and out but randomly
either poping out the same side or the other. I see no y error creeping in
(seems like it can't) so it can't turn this flat eleptical into a circle.
if start with an angle the error wlil probably accumuate in the x vs y
over time and turn into a cicle. Let me test that.

But limiting dt to no smaller than e-30 seems to make it behave in a very
well controlled fashion -- it will be accumutling errors at e-30 when it
passes too close to overlap, but it won't blow up it seems.  or at least,
as not as long as the velocity is not too great.  Really high velocities
would require smaller steps.

So, I need to test the angle theory.

But there's also room here to improve the simulation steps by itteration
instead of just slowing down dt and restarting. I need to explore that
path as well.


----

Yes, when testing from a dead stop with e p pair at an angle, the error
accumualted over maybe 10 orbits and then turned the flat elpise into
a circle as I was guessing it would.

So this simulator has error issues, but yet it's looking very stable
and good.  And I have to wonder even if this error of turning elipses
into circles is bad since given the complex behavior of more than two
particles.  Maybe this approach is good enough.

But I have to explore the option of itterating to improve the next step
without slowing down DT and see what that results.  Certaonly if theres
error in the other direction, and circles turn into flat elipses that
would not be good.

But this error adjust might be spreading energy through the system in
an invalid way. The reason all the electons stay in sync might be due
to the error spreading alogorithm instead of what it would do if the
simulation was perfect?

I guess truning off the error spreading adjustment might yield some
insight into what the rest of the algoirhtm is doing?

----

[5:45 PM]

Went to pizza.  Just got back.  Going to movie with Pig soon.

Started 4 different runs before leaving.  Three of them have three
pairs running to test if they pull together over time and to see how
they evolve after they pull together.

Two are getting closer.  But one which had the center of three spnning
backwards from the outer two, is drifting apart!

One had the right pair spinning in a different direction, and it's
pulling close, but the center pair is drifting down forming a triangle.
Intersting and off behavior.

I might need to create something that does a long simulation and then
turn it into a short movie.  Might run much fast4er without constant
screen updates.  All things to explore later.

Also started one in a fake hydrogen configuration with two protons close
together with one electon, and then a second electron further out in orbit
around them.  The two prtons are staying close together with one electon
in tight orbit now around one proton.  The second protron is stuck out
away but standing almost still at the moment.  It will be interesting to
see how that evolves -- will it spread apart and turn into two sperate
pairs with somewhat equal orbits in time?  Or stay together like that?
Or just what?  But because of the tight orbit the simulation is running
e-18 slow so it will take a long time.

And of course, I don't fully trust this simulation code to be producing
anything related to how it would work if the simulationj was perfect.

But it's fun just to see what might evolve with this code to get a feel
of what might be possible.

But the next step is really to look at the itteration option for improving
the simulation accuracy.

================================================================================

2016-08-23 10:08 AM Wednesday

Yesterday

1) Added DT auto adjust to lower and raise speed of simulation as needed
to maintain accuracy.  Works much better this way.  Had to add code to
allow the current step to be restarted to make that work.  Limits how
small DT can get to keep it from going to zero or running the simulation
too slow -- it's ok to have small errors is my though?

2) Cleaned up energy adjust to use starting energy -- that made it
simpler.

3) Left 5 different tests running over night for the first time to see
how long term effects worked. No great discoveries.    But I'm gaining
my first understanding of how these systems work -- at least in 2D.
The code works in 3D but all my tests have only been 2D so far with 0
values for all Z dimensions.

4) Cleaned up debug some as well.

Today

1) More work on the core simulation code still needed.  Current code is
much better than the past but still has issues to consier.  Elitpcal
orbit of ep pair quickly turns into circular orbit.  It should stay
elitipcal but doesn't for some reason.  It wasn't doing this with the
old code.  But I don't know if this was due to switching to the use of
velocity average vs ending that cuased it, or some effect caused by the
energy conservation code.  Or both working together? I need to write
the itteration code next so when when the next position is picked, we
calucate the ending force and acceleration, then go back and re-calcuate
the ending knowing how the force changes, and repeat this to try and
make it converge on a good answer.

2) Nagging concern that the energy equalizing code is putting energy
into the wrong particles and as a result, creating emergent properties
that have nothing to do with the therotical model.

2) In working on new simulation, I need better tests to compare how each
version works so I can understand what the differences are.

The current simulation is now working well enough to "look" like it's
doing most the things it should.  No more electrons flying off the
screen at high velocity due to simulation errors.  ep pair falling
stright together doesn't crash the system either.  Sometimes is passes
though to the other side (like it should) and sometimes it bounces back
out the way it fell in (wrong but not so bad really). In both costs,
the velocity and apex of the escape look good.  At least I can trust
the simulation won't blow up now when an ep get too close.  But I need
to explore the accuracly question.

Momentum is well maintaned near 0 so the system doesn't start to drift off
the screen either.  But there are clear problems still.  Two particles
in an eleptical orbit will quickly turn into a circular orbit instead
of staying in the eleptical orbit like it should.

Since nothing I write can simulate the differential equations perfectly
there is always the naging question of whether the system will demonstate
the correct emergent properoties. And if it doesn't match realility,
is it becaues the model is just not how realiety works, or is it that
the simulation error prevents us from seeing reality?

The energey equalizing code is a real question in my view  When the
simulation predicts the next step, and we recalucate energy and see it's
not constant, we know the next state is slightly wrong.  But how do we
know that when we tweak the state to fix the energy error, that we are
not putting energy into the wrong place?  Currently, I'm fixing kenetic
energy by adjusting the speed of particles -- but what I could be doing
is sucking energy out of one particle and putting it into another even
though that would not have happaned with the real system in the same way.

My over night runs have all showed the system like to keep all the
electons in the same orbit -- I'm not seeing a tendency of erngy to
flow from out of one and into another, making one have a thight low
orbit and the high energy particle a high slow orbit.  That might be
becuaes of the enregy balancing fix and not becuaes of a natural effect
of the interaction.

I guess I need to code different ways of trying to fix all this and test
them against each other by turning different ones on and off to get a
feel for what emergent properties might be a type of truth about the
system, vs a property of the way it's coded.

Ok, but first, lets dig into the itteration code approach and see what
happens.

----

[3:15 PM]

Write itteration code.  Seems to do a good job.  Had to first figure
out the doble intergral of acceleration to figure out the code.

 xe = 1/2 (2 as + ae)/3 ts^2 + vs ts + xs

 xs - x starting

 xe - x ending

 as - acceleration starting

 ae - acceleration ending

 vs - velocity start

Notice veloicty end is not even used when updating position.

Basiclly just a variation of 1/2 a t^2.

Code is somewhat a mess now.  It will be time for a major cleanup soon.

Good news is that with the new code, the epictial orbit doesn't turn
into a circle.  It stays eliptical at least for a good long time.
It does drift around slowly, but that seems ok maybe.

Tried to test the two e p falling to each other, but it triggered a
bug that drove me insane.  Finally figured out it was reltaed to the
fact that with zero velocity, the energy adjust code could not work
and it confused the dt adjust code as well.  Didn't fix the bug. but
just stopped trying to play with the fall together code...  Too tired
to think it through at the moment.

Doing a new two p and one e test, the behavior is very different than
before.  not sure if it's starting condition difference or emulator
difference.  But the e started in a tight eliptical orbit about one with
tail pointing to second p.  That sucked the second p closer, unilt the e
was able to jump back and forth between the two p in tight elitpcail like
falt orbit -- but not so regular.  Sort of figure 8 and sort of random.

Oh, learned that on angstrom was e-10 meters which is what I was using
for the Spacing var.  And it's about the diameter of h or he atom?

doing the p e p test again and seeing strange results.  The electon was
jumping back and forth and with the left p, sucking the right p close,
but then when I wasn't watching, the electon has moved to the rigght p,
and it's doing odd orbits to the outside and makign the other p push away.
Ah, but now that it's far enough away, it's truned into flat orbit with
tail pointing to other p.  Sucking it back I belive.

At 2a distance it started jumping back and forth.  figure 8 with a real
flat eleptical orbit.

----

Yes, the new code is acting very different frm the old.  With the old
three ep pairs would stay in orbits but with the new code, the paths
turn electipical and very chaotic very fast with the electons diving down
towards a protron.  Just alittle difference in the simulation lgoick is
producing very big differences in emergent behavior.  Which is a problem.

How do I know the current is anything near right?

Next big issue is how I do the energy adjust using ke.  Don't know if
that might be a key factor in what emergent beahviors show up.

The itteration logic stops improving at something like e-22 energy error
which to me shows that the assumption that acceleration chagnes linneraly
is of course wrong and this amount of error is the best you can with
that assumption.  So smaller levels of dt are needed to do better I guess.
To better fit the acceleartion differences to their true path.

So I guess other than the energy adjust logic, I need to run tests with
very small and slow dt, and compare to see how much it diverges or differs
from test with larger dt.

But, grass needs to be cut before movie tonight.....

[4:00 PM]

----

[9:54 PM]

Back from movie.  Bridget Jones' Baby.  Very touching and funny.

Two proton plus + 1 electon run seems stable at about a spacing of
2 with electon jumping back and forth between the two in a tight
figure 8 that looks so flat it's more like just jumping back and
forth.

I was playing with code earlier and doing a bit of clean up and
commenting out debug of the itteration code.  The itteration code
is a mess and is structured all wrong -- cuases it to duplicate
work in many cases.  That will need clean up.

Added dtMin to match dtMax.  When the dt value is kept small the
error as expected is very small.  I think numbers were e-22 energy
error (on e-18 total) when dt was e-18, but by making it real
slow it would get all the way to e-35 error I think.  But it might
take a year to do one orbit revolution at that speed!

Got some bug in the newly hacked code.  Trying to run the three
in a row orbits now cuases the second two to dive towards protons
instead of cleably orbiting in synce but then the simulation
locks up with a very small dt even though the electrons aren't all
that close to the protons -- still not overlapping on the graphics.
Odd.

Need to do major careful clean up of itteration and dt adjust code
tomorrow and figure out what's going on.

----

Ok, found bug.  The min() and max() code I got backwards so
it was setting dt to the max or the min with every step.
Now it's working, but the three pair test is orbting very slow to
keep up with the error rate.  The new simulation code tends
to see electrons get near to protons a lot more often than the
old code that tended to force more circular orbits.

Need to set error level for auto adjust code so I can choose
to run simulations faster with more error or slower with less
error.  But need to clean up code first.

Will let some slow but more accurate tests run overnight.

================================================================================

2016-08-25 12:03 PM Thursday

Yesterday

1) Added itteration of next position using linear estimation of
acceleration.  Found it convergs very quickly in only two or three
itterations and is certainly well worth the CPU cycles in how it
improves the next state estimate.  But the code is a mess and needs a
major cleanup.  Had to figure out the calculus to derive the formual
for using acceleration to estimate position.

2) improved DT auto adjust, added dtMax to echo dtMin.

3) Lots of testing and experimenting and code tweaks.

4) Left a couple of experiments runing with current code.  2p and one e
was showing a good tendency to lock together with the e bouncing back
and forth.  Locked at about a 2.2 A distance for the given energy I
started it with.  But after running over night, the one p has escaped
and is 13+ A away.  But the distance is closing slowly and it looks like
they might come back together in time.

This might have been a code blow up problem instead of a natrual
evolution.  I thnk I'm still looking at a blow up when the e gets so
close to the p that reducing dt doesn't fix it then it's random luck
whether it blows up or not.  So I think current code fails to prevent
blow up -- it just reduces the odds to be much smaller -- not good enough.

5) Second experment was 3 pairs in a row with synchronized orbits.
They have drifted randomly apart but are currently orbiting -- or more
accuratly in very flat pulsating orbits.

Today

Need to make DT tracking cleaner.  Need to make error level it seeks
a paramater and need to think more about what error to actually track.
I'm using energy error / totalKE currently as the measure.  Not a bad
choice, but probably not the best either.

Need to clean up itteration code. It's badly structured currently because
I just did a dirty hack to see if it was worth doing.  It is worth doing,
so I need to clean that up.

Need to tackle energy adjust next.  I spread the energy error across
all particles but I need to think about whther how I assign error is
the best way to identify which particles are most liekly to be in error.

And here's a new thought.  If I do an energy adjust, should I try the
itteration again with the adjusted ending velocities?  Ah, but that's
pointless becuase I dont use the ending velocity in the formaula to
pick the next location -- only the accelerations.  So I would need a
new formula that used ending velocity.  Ok, so will have to think moare
abot that -- what things I might be able to itterate on.  Well no what
I would be itterating on is trying to reduce all errors including energy
and monentum?

The big problem of simulation remains.  The fall through problem.  When
the dt itteration step is not small enough and the particle takes
too big a step over a complex changing force field.  I guess to continue
my attack against this problem I need to keep looking at the fall though
problem.  Maybe set up two e and two p in fall through configuation at
differeent frequencies.  Well, first, make sure I have solved the one
pair problem -- does the energy adjust work correctly?  Or might it
get the sign of the velocity wrong?  And then see if it can solve the
two or more fall through problem without putting energy in the wrong
place.

Ok, so lets first clean up the code for itteration and get that done.

[12:45 PM]

----

[6:38 PM]

Been doing major clean up of code.  Then ran into a bug I didn't
understand which caused it to run very slow.  Set up a two e test, and
added debug until I traced down the problem for that test.  Found the
reset after move code was not resetting force as one bug.  Need to get
rid of that and not move till later so it doesn't even need to do a reset.
But that wasn't the real issue.

The real issue was that PE was -19 where KE was -45 so that when we add
these two togethre to get total E, all the KE information was lost in the
lack of precision. Then when we subjtract two of these to find a diff,
the system can't see the KE diff at all.  And the PE was the same.
But once speed got fast enough, and KE shows up it looks like a huge
error ast the top bit of KE overflows into the bototm bit if PE.

Fix is to calcuate difference as (PEstart-PEend) + (KEstart-KEend)
instead of doing it as (PEstart+KEstart) - (PEend+KEend)

That fixed it so as to allow it not to keep scalling DT up and down --
but ran into the problem that it had to keep DT very small due to the
fact that the total error was large compared to size of the KE which
was very very small.  So, need to think some more on whether this is
the right thing to check in the DT tracking code.

And, more cleanup -- fix the use of move() and reset() when the system
simply should not move until it's decided not to reset and start over.

I also made a DT speed up make the move, and use the new dt for the next
one instead of restarting the current one.  That's a waste.  We already
calucated the new location using the small DT so go ahead and make use
of it.

But, off to movie now.  Will look more this later when I get back.

----

[10:14 PM]

Back from movie.  War Dogs.  Liked it.  Good story.

Rebooted skinner desktop -- needed software update.

The 2pe simulation had driffeted apart again.  The 3(ep) was running with
wide gaps between the three -- no sign of them wanting to seek together.

Need to clean up code more and think about this issue of how error was
being calculated and why on this one case it was such a problem.

Also, I don't know if the problem I uncovered with the two electons
is the same problem I was seeing before I started to look closer.  So
there may be more at work here.

----

[11:51 PM]

Lots of little code clean up and playing.

Made starting energy two vars instead of one to cope with the different
error problem.

Made a bounce reposition particle inside screen.  Not so sure about the
quality of that code however.

Made move() only happen after we decided not to restart for DT.  So that
made code a little cleaner.  no more Old values to save and restore.

Played a bit with one p and two e.  Intersting. One e stuck to the protron
and the other was being pushed away.  So while a p is attracted to an ep
pair, an e seems to be repeled from it!

Added a few divide by zero checks that were caused when the starting
configuration had multiple particles on the exact same location.

Restarted a pep test to see if it works.

================================================================================

2016-08-26 11:53 AM Friday

Yesterday

1) Lots of basic code clean up for DT adjust and itteration now that I
decided I like both these apporachs.  More still needed.  But it's not
a mess anymore.

2) Came across computational problem with energy error calculation.
With two e the PE was large and the KE started at zero and stayed
very small.  So small that it was below the significant digits of
the PE value.  When trying to calculate total E, all ke data was lost.
But doing the substraction to compute error differently impoved that (but
didn't really fix the underlying question).  The computional problem
confused the DT auto adjust becuase error was zero for a long time,
then jumped to something non zero.  Impoved this issue some by just by
keeping PE and KE separate.  But how DT auto adjust for error has some
fundamental issues that need to be thought througthrough.

3) Changed bounce to force particle to stay on screen.  Code is not
clean and I don't trust it.

4) Added clear screen to display instead of simple scroling.

5) Tried to calculate PE from total force vectors -- but figured out
that was not possible.  Energy is force times distance but the correct
distance to use is unkonwn if you are only given the force vectors. Also
realized that the force calculation and the PE calculation was duplicating
a lot of work that could be reduced by doing both at the same time.

6) Chagned DT adjust so it didn't have to undo the move.  Also realized
that when making DT larger, there is no need to throw away the small
step just computed.  So it keeps that last small step, and used the new
larget DT for the next step now.  Much better.  Restart is only needed
when DT is made smaller becaue there is too much error.  Cleaned up
restart so it didn't waste time redrawing and producing extra output.

Today

More clean up and experimentation needed.  Emulation loop is not in
a class, still just top level code and there's now world class as
needed so that all needs to be refactored.

Focus is still on testing and improving the core simulation algorithm.

Will not do major refeactor until I'm happy with the core emulation
algorithm.

pep test from last night has allowed the two p to drift far apart.  The e
is pulsating at one p towards the other -- don't understand why it's not
pulling the two back together.  Don't understand how it drifted apart.
But I thought this might be a blow up yesterday, but today I'm thinking
this is just how it works.  Maybe it pulls them together too fast, and
then switches to an orbit that releases it once it gets too close, like
shooting it off like a rubber band?  I need to watch it more carefully.

At some point, the slow speed of the emulation will force me to create
a system to save a history and play it back faster.

Also, all this is 2D.  Things might be very different in 3D.  I'll need
to try that soon.  The code should work, just need to add some non-zero
z values to get it started.

I have real concerns about whether the energy adjusting is not having a
significant effect on the behavior -- Assuming it's not working perfectly
we are dealing with a problem of enrgy "leaking" from one place in the
emultion to others that maybe it shouldn't be leaking.

If I dodn't "fix" the energy, then the system will be randomlyu adding
and removing energy -- which is clearly bogus.  So I think I have to
fix the enrgy, but what is the best way to do this?

Maybe I really need to use an itteration loop that minimizes energy
error to whatever level I need? Seems like I need to get a better grasp
on understanding where the error really is in the system.

The current itteration logic should be good to get the first
approximation.  But then another form of itteration might be needed
to take the error out while allowing the assumption of linear A to
be ignored?

Maybe it's time to go back to the fall though problem because thats sort
of a worse case to solve?

----

Playing with fall through problem.

Figured out that double prection has 16 digits of accuracy.  So when the
energy is e-19, then 19+16 = 35, so the error that happens at the limit
of the precision is e-35.  Which is the error we see in the momentum.
We can't expect better results than that since it is the limit of the
precision.

But, by keeping pe and ke separate we might be able to do something
better.  Maybe.

Also, in the fall though, which starts with zero kenetic energy, ht
hangs as dt=e-30 at the start due to the fact that the total ke error
is large due to the very very small total ke.  Haven't looked carefully
at the numbers, but I just get around that by setting dtMin to something
high to force the simulation to run faster.

The electron sometimes bounces back, and sometimes falls through.
Don't understand why this happens yet.  Same thing I saw before.  But I
need to think this through and understand why it doesn't always fall
through correctly.

----

Added max energy error measure.

On fall through where I force dt to stay large like e-18, the ke is
normally around e-19, but the max error is a bad as 0.6!  I've turned
off the energy error correction to see what happens.

The new bounce logic that keeps the particles in the windoes is allows
this simulation to keep running even after the velocity is all messed
up and since bounce takes half the speed out (75% of energy out) it
slows back down and recovers.

So, on this problem, we always have the option to just calculate what
the velocity should be, and set it to that.  Or can we?

So we have some velocity for the two particles, and a known distance.
And we know the starting energy, so we can calucate the energy error
though the significant digits could be an issue.

And if the particles are too far apart due to falure to estimate location
then we can't fix by adjusting speed alone.

And direction of velocity has nothing to do with energy, so adjusting
for energy alone doesn't fix a direction error.

But maybe momentum?  Adjusting for zero monumtum takes into account the
velocity direction.  Maybe that's the key?  Itterate to minimize both
the energy error and momuntum error?  So if we assume the position is
correct (not always true) maybe we can itterate to reduce energy and
monemtum errors to zero?  So if position is fixed, PE is fixed then we
are itterating to make ke correct.  And if assume direction is correct,
then we are just using monumtum to tell us how to distribute the KE error?
With two partiles, we only have to varibles (velocity of each), and two
varibles to minmize, so that should work. But with n particles, that
won't work -- we have too many degrees of freedom.  we can solve it,
but there are many solutions.  Like a+B+c+d = 6.

Ok, my current code assumes position, and direction is AND relative KE
per particle is all correct, leaving only one variable to adjust which
is the total KE.

So I have N*2 varibles to adjust (position and velocity or position and
momentum) but only two varibles to minimize -- total energy error and
total monumtum of zero.  So that can't produce a "correct" answer.

But what about looking at the individual particle to particle change
in PE.  If particles A and B move farther apart or close together, the
velocity vector in that direction should change by that difference no?
And the monumtum of the two should remain the same.  That sounds correct.
And simple if the angle of the path between the two remains the same.
But since it changes, how does that work?

So, if they come closer together, the velocity increases.  Ah, what if
we just look at this as an energy trasfer from PE to KE.  So if they
come closer together, the KE goes up in both particles.  Ok but we have
the same problem of not knowing how much ke to assign to each particle.

Or maybe we do?  If we look at the problem from a frame of reference
of the frist particle, we can say all the KE change is in the second
particle.  If that is the E, then the relative velocity will change a lot.
If the second is the P, the velocity will change only a little.  But no
matter which frame of reference we look at, the velocity change must be
the same! The system can't act differently just becuase we are stadning
in different place to observe it.  Which I think is the conservation
of monumtum issue.  The static frame of reference where the veloctiy
change is the same is the frame of reference where conservation of
monentum happens.

So, can we say that the frame of reference where conservation of momuntum
happens is the same for all particles in the system?

Ok, so the direction problem is that the direction of transfer of energy
shifts over the time period.  But if the transfer is always always
maintains conservation of momentum, then maybe it's valid to say that by
the end we still know the total KE transfer -- we just don't know the
correct direction.  So if KE increases by x, we can say that the KE of
each particle must increase by x such that momentum is balanced.  Ah,
but I sense a problem.  ke is v^2.  momnumtum is just v.  To calcuate
the KE difference we need to know the current v of each particle I
think. lets check the math...

u is monumtum, m is mass, v is velocity

u1 = m1 v1

u2 = m2 v2

ke1 = m1 v1 v1

ke2 = m2 v2 v2

If potentical energy changes by ed (energy difference) then I have ke1 +
ke2 .... ahhhh.....

I have two unknown velocities and two equations, one for energy change
and one for monuntum.  So that could be solved, If we assume velocity
direction is correct, and we are onky solving for the two velocity
magnatudes.

Still confused.

Ok, but I think (hope) I'm on to something here.  The energy transfer in
the system I think can be broken down to particle to particle transfers
and I think they always have to follow a general rule of conservation
of energy and momentum. The way particle a pulls on b is always equal
to the way b pulls on a.  The force is not the same (as it often is in
macro physics problems), but the acceleration is.  No, wrong. The force
is what is the same, and the acceleration is different -- the lighter
weight particle accelerates more.

Oh, oh!  If we project the velocity vector onto the starting vector of
the two particles postion difference, we can get a starting PE with the
distance, and starting KE for each paticle, but only relative to that
projection line.  And that gives us a starting momuntum of that two
particle pair.

Then, given a guess at the ending position, we can measure the relative
PE to see how that changed, and then assign how much the veloicty of
each has to change, to maintain the same momentum.  So we can directly
calculate the ending velocity vectors along the projection line of the
connecting path.  Maybe.  If this is true, given an ending position,
we can directly calculate all the ending velocities of all particles.
If this is true, then any ending position, will have one and only
posisble solution.

But this ideas is making an assumption that probably isn't valid?
That the magnatude of the momentum is conserved even whtn the angle of
the line changes?

If two particles are both in line on the horizontal, and drifting to
the right -- +x monentum, and the line rotates

Ok, so looking at two particles in issolation, the forces always match
and balance so the a will always be matched by the mass ratio, so the
change in V will always be balanced by the mass ratio  which means the
monentum will change will always be equal.  After period DT the total
chagne in monentum of p1 will be exactly balanced by the total chagne
in P2.  As a momentum vector.  So for each pair we have one monumtum
change vector.  But the energy change is u*v.

----

[7:18 PM]

Went out to pizza.  Got money at bank. Wasted time on facebook.
Switched auto payment of Verizon Fios from newsreader to ayrhillforge.
Need to shut down the newsreader checking acount.  Bitching at Michael
about failure ot grasp capitalism some more.

But back to trying to grasp the math and mechanics of orbits.

I think there is still likely something important in looking at the
particle to particle energy transfers.  The path a particle takes
is the sum of the effects of all other particles pushing it around.

So what do I think I know for sure about this?

The change in distance between to particles, creates a change in
potential energy, that has to show up elsewhere in the system.  Is
it fair to say it always shows up as a change in the KE of the two
particles on either end?

Instead of trying to analize the math, I guess I could just code
this and test it.  But what to code?  For a difference in distance
We can translate to the chagne in PE for any pair.  Then we must
allocate that energy diff to each particle.  Can we?  Do we know
how much goes to each?

I get a formula something like this that tells us the ending velocity
given the starting velocity based on kenentic energy change needed to
offset the PE change. (e is the PE change) (missing some unit conversion
constants)

v = sqrt(sqrt(2*e/m) + v^2)

Does this formula tell us anything real?  Looking at orbits, I see
it does not tell us the velocity chagne along the connecting line.
It's a measure of velociety change total in both.  No, wrong.  It's a
measure of velocity chagne if only one changed. But sinc eboth change,
it's really a measure of some undefined compoent of the total change.
I think it tells us nothing useful here.

Shit. Still lost.  What do we know about the matching pairs?  The total
change in monentum has to be equal and opposit at all times?  No, wait
the intergral of the force vector is equal and opposit in the pair.
And the intergral of the force vector is the total change in velocity
is it not?  Or at least, when adjusted by the mass?

Ok, a question.  Force and mass defines change in velocity.  does
the starting velocy make a difference to energy chanage?  So
veloicty is 0 and increased to 1, energy goes from 0 to 1.

Velocity is 10, and increases to 11, energy goes from 100, to 121,
a difference of  21, so clearly, initial velicty is important to
understanding energy change.

So with two particles, if the distance changes the pe changes, but the
energy is not just allocated by the total change in distance over time.
But,  if one particle stays in the same place and the other is moving
away fast, then the energy change is mostly in the fast moving?

Still lost.  This frame of referece question I don't know the real
answer to.  Can you adjust all numbers in the system to a different
frame of reference (moving, roating, accelerating, etc), and have all
the math still work the same to explain all the paths in that new
frame of reference?

Does the math translate along with the frame?

If we scale by changing units it must work. So changing from units
of meters to ft, the math all stays the same.  But constants may
need to adjust?  Yeah, mass units and distance and time units all
need to match so if you change one unit and not the other, constants
may be needed to adjust.  But the math would of course still work.
But if all units were just cut in half for example, maybe nothing
changes? I would have to check the math to be sure and I'm not going
to do that at the moment.

What if we add velocity to all objects?  lets just check 1d.

To particles are still at start, so ke = 0, pe is something.

We tranlate all to a moving frame.  The moving frame has far more ke at
the start.  But force is the same.  To change in velociety is the same.
They will just accelerate tworads each other.

Yes, switching to a moving frame of refence changes the nmbers but not
the results.  The loss in distance between two particles still translates
to the change in KE of the two particles.

But the change in KE of the individual is far greater, but the sum of
the change, is identical.

So from a stand still, 0 KE at start, to accelerate to 1 m/s of a mass
of two, the KE increased by 1 for each, or 2 total.

When moving at 10 m/s, one incrases to 11 and the other drops to 9.
Which is 21 unit increase and a 19 unit decrease.  But the sum is still 2.
So the indivdiaul chagnes in energy look very different, but the relative
change is the same.

So change in energy value for a given particle is senstive to the frame
we choose to measure from.  But total energy change is not.

And total monumtum is different based on frame, but change in momuntum
is not.

So what if we define a frame relative to one particle and look at all
others relative to that?  That's not just a simple constant v frame, but
one that is changing.  What might that do?  It seems it has a chance
to work.  But is it if any value to look at the system from that
perspective?

All this is going back to the problem of why doesn't the simple fallthough
test work right.  (bounce sometimes instead of pass through) And the answer
I think is that we can calculate the correct total energy, but not the
correct velocity direction.

================================================================================

2016-08-27 8:46 AM Saturday

Yesterday

1) Lots of time looking at fallthrough problem without comming up with
any answers.  Grasping at straws trying to find a way to even attack the
problem.  It should pass through, but sometimes bounces back instead.
Trying to understand why the algoirthm doesn't work and how to fix it
so it will always work.  Didn't come up with a good answer to either
question.

2) More time trying to understand a different attack on the entire
algoirthm to converage on perfect solutions without comming to any
conclusion.  Lots of time thinking about analsing it on a pair by
pair approach.

3) Gave up and watched TV.

Today

Time to attack again and my head is a little more clear on some of the
confusion from yesterday.

Ideas from bed.  Graph the force of the fall through problem and we
get a 1/x looking curve with 1/x^2 values (aka the sign flips as it
passes center.  Our current alrorightm connects the dots on this force
aka accelerationgraph.  If the line from dot to dot passes through the
orign correctly, then the area under the dot to dot curve on both sides
will be the same and the aprticle will slow down as much as it speed up.

But if not, the area is not the same, and we get a totally invalid
behavior.  The two particles be traveling too fast apart never sllow
down to the stop they should stop at.

The estimated curve is a bad match for the real curve because it fails to
"see" the sigulartiy(s) correctly.

But doing the pe vs ke energy correction, fixes that. Sort of.  If the
error wasn't so bad that in one step it exceeded what could be fixed.

Ok, so this line of thinking I belive will allow me to grasp the problem
of the fall though -- which also helps grasp the same problem whenver
the particles get too close together for whatever min DT we are using.

The DT adjust greatly reducees the odds that we get too close for a
given minDT, but it doesn't fix the problem.  A given DT will always
blow up if it gets too close.

One idea was to change the curve to flaten the singularity.  Aka, for
any distance less than x, the force is maxed out.  Does that maintain
energy conservation?  How does it change orbits?  It would mean tha PE
was no longer infinte but instead finite whcih would give us an actualy
total energy number.  But how much does it change behavior?  I'll have
to look into that further.

So I think this appraoch of looking at the force curve on the fall though
problem will help me grasp the weakness and find a fix. Thaat's good.
Understanding the probnlem is the first step.

Now. I can't remeber if I did Starbucks yesterday or not.  I think
I didn't.  But it was Friday.  Did I decide not to to be extra good?
Or did I get confused?  Let me check the app to see when I last was there.

Nope, I didn't.  Wed was the last visit.  I'll go today.  Maybe that's
a good approach anyway -- M W Sat instead of MW F?

But, Tague wasasking about our human nature and AI and rewards
for the econ debate so I'll answer that first on Facebook.

----

Just played a bit with code.  was going to do a quick hack for
force max.  Then remebered other problem -- the fall though now
hangs at the beginnign with dt of e-30 becuase of an energy error
issue that shouldn't be an issue.  So I need to look at that
and fix that as well. It's beause the KE is 0 at the start so
energy error relatve to total KE is large.  PE I think is dwarfing
KE and the change is distance is so small that PE doesn't change
due to it being below the 16 digits of perciston.  So PE looks
like zero chagne, but KE is a real change so I think I'm computing
energy error at 100% of KE when it's not really.

I think I need to careful computer enerrgy error differently
not by computing PE befre and after and subtracting, but by instead
using the distance before and after, and and computing the change
in PE.  Ok, put that on the todo list for today. Not not right
at the moment.

----

Ok, capping distance at 2 Angstrom didn't fix the bounce problem
in fall though.  I don't undrestand why.  But it happens at the
disconnect switch from +A to -A.  And it randomly falls through
or bounces.  EnergyFix is on, so I think this is a problem
caused by the energy fix and how the dt step falls in realtion
to the zero transission.

But coffee.  No, Tauge response to Facebook! first.  Then
coffee. Maybe I can just avoid startbucks?

----

[12:49 PM]

Ok, back from facebook.  Trying to understand why the fallthough does
a bounce.

Oh, I did skip starbucks.  So far today at least.

It must be the energy correction getting the sign wrong I guess.
But how?  Why?

I now have a 2A wide constant force field the particle is traveling
through near the proton but that does't fix it.

Ah, but wait, something is broken.  It's traveling at a constant velocity
though that section.  Ah, I fixed the calucation of PE but didn't fix
the actual force calcuatoin -- so the energy fix is constantly fixing
the KE to be make it constant.

Lets go fix the calcuation of force as well...

----

[1:32 PM]

Fixed the force to use fudged distance as well.  Now it bounces
back and forth perfectgly.  That's a joy to see.

But the code turned out to be mess of duplication and confusion.

And it's wrong.

The fixed codeis still showing constant velocity when inside the
protection circle.  I didn't want that. I wanted constant force.

My error is that I'm Calcualting constant PE as well, but it shouldn't
be constant.  That doesn't match the constant force.

Hum, let met trun off error fix and see what happens now....

----

Ok, turning fix off allowed velociety to change while iniside the
circle but i was confused becuaes dt adjust was changing the value
when it hit the circle makeing it slow down so I though it was
slowign down in the cicle. But it wasn't actually.

But without energyFix it accumlates errors quickly.

But, it bounces back and forth correctly all the time so far!

So, let me figure out what PE formula really should be if force
is fixed for inside the circile!


----

[7:44 PM]

got the RLimit working I think.  Fall though works just fine
with it.

But damn, it clearly fucks up the simlation for other cases.
Even for a very small RLimit of 0.01A (vs 2A that I was testing
with).

Well, that was progress, but maybe I'll have to rip it out and
do something different instead.

I guess the problem is that once the electron gets close enough
to hit the circle, the orbit becomes fucked and it pops out some
random direction it should not have.  Maybe the answer is that
I just need a really really small RLimit so it only hits it
for extreemly small values of DT?  I'll test later.  Or
tomorrow.

Food now.  Maybe Wendy's salad.

================================================================================

2016-08-28 4:26 PM Sunday

Yesterday

1) Got RLimit code working to cap force in a small circle around the
particles to cap the inifity problem.  Had to adjust force and PE
equations to match each other.  Sort of a mess how I coded it still.
But as long as DT can reduce enough, this allows the system to track the
force curve without making errors that the energy fix can't fix.  Which
means fall-though falls through every time now and doesn't bounce back.
But I have real issues with the accuracy of the simulation unresolved.

Today

Started playing earlyer without updating notes.

By using a very small RLimit (0.001 Ang)  the sytem works better with
fewer questionable simuaiton behaviors.  Basically, make it so small
that it's almost never used.

Still, however, I think when it is used, we got a problem. I guess I
could track the number of times the particles get that close together,
to track how questionable a simlation is.

But, started to work on display stuff today.  Changed screen size
to large.  Chnage bounce logic to make protons bounce futher inside
from the edge (20 pixels maybe -- one A) and electons bounce at 5 I
think. This keeps them away from the edge and allows the elctons to
nothave their orbits reduced to near zero just beause the proton it's
orbiting around does a bounce. Sort of bhelps with simlation speed By
keeping the elctons futher away from the proton.

Added code to start a random field of electons and protons.  Fun watching
all electrons run to the edges and get pinneed but keep all evenly
spaced out!

Added code to put center of mass in the middle of the screen at start.

Changed screen coordinate mapping to put zero in the upper left now that
we have auto center code.  Makes code simpler.

================================================================================

2016-08-30 1:47 PM Tuesday

Yesterday (two Days Ago really)

1) Work on displaly code. Made larger screen. Added inset from edge
for bounce so particles were easier to see when stuck on the edge.
Made protons bounce frame smaller so they could boucne without cauing
an orbiting electon to suck it's orbit down to zero at the same time.

2) Wrote new startup that created N random protons and N random electons
to test different combinations easilly.

3) Added code to place center of mass in center of screen.  In addition
to what it was already doing of setting system momentum to zero.

4) Changed screen coordinate to make x=0 y=0 uppler left instead of
how I had it in sort of the middle.

Today

Just fixed the global Bounce warning message comming from Python that
has been hanging around for days. Seems it was the second Global used
at the energy check that was cusing the error beuase it was not inside
a class and was in the same scope as Where Bounce as declared at the
top of the file.  I thought it was the "global Bounce" in the class
in the dsiplay code.  I thought that was the one getting the error by
apparenetly it was not.  So the second global Bounce as just not needed
and I deleted it and all is working fine and the error message is gone.
Phyton name scoping is just odd and hard to follow at times.

--

Yesterday, did a bike ride out to the BBQ place on the W&OD (30 mile round
trip).  Though it was cooler but it was 95.  Really hot.  Did fine but had
bad legs cramps after getting home at night from being too dehydrated.
Haven't been riding this summer because the damn temps have been up in
the 90's most the summer and it's just too hot to make biking fun. But
temps seem to be improving this week so maybe I'll do some more.  I need
the exercuse.  Both for weight loss and to help the strees I'm coping
with due to running out of money and having a very uncertain future.
didn't work on physics due to bike ride.

Also, the damn bike rack frame bent down again on the ride due to the
weight of battereis and water bottle banging on frame when I hit bumps
and bent enough to start rubbing the tire. But didn't happen until I
was back in Vienna so it wasn't a big problem.  I really need to build
byself a new frame.  Or something to prevent this from being a problem.

--

Idea I had about Physics. I need to zoom in the display to see a different
scale and see what happens when I use electons in tigher smaller obrits
around the protons.  Does the behavior of the system stay the same when
we re-scale like that?  Just smaller orbits, fixed by zooming in?  So we
get higher speeds but the same relative behavior?  Or does the behavior
actually change?  Since I read that a hydrogen atom as an outer shell of
about 1 A in diameter, it means a netron must have a far smaller orbit
if there is any hope of it being an e p pair in truth.  So maybe if I
chagne the scale and look more at what such a tight orbit does, I will
see new behvior due to the force of attraction being so much stronger
at the smaller scales?  So, I need to be able to zoom the view  of
the window. Currently it's hard coded as 20 pixels per Angstom.

When the orbits get tight in this view, all I can see is the electron
on top of the proton, and the simulation slows down to a point I can't
see anything moving.  So zooming will allow me to watch the lower level
interaction.

Of coruse, even nicer will be a large simulation that allows me to zoom
in on one part of the screen, then zoom back out -- or zoom in on
one particle and track it.  Maybe zoom in and track the center of
mass of all the particles that were in the first zoomed in screen
or something?

--

Relativity.  What the fuck is it?  I really need to learn physics more
to get a good grasp on what the experimentental evidnce for relativeity
is.  I undertand that Einstein did no experments to come uip with the ideas
but instead just looked at the formulas that experimental work on
electomagnatism had crated -- maxwells formuals and the like.  As I
understand it, he conclued that if the univese worked according to
those formulas, then relativeiy had to be true. But I don't really
understnd what the formauils were, where they came from, and how the
conclusion was reached from the formulas.

But the results, is that speed of light is a fundamental limit.  That light
has a speed limit.  That gravity bends light.  That time slows down
when we accelerate.  And mass increases?

Ok, so reading some, I see that the key to relativity is the idea
that mass and energy are interchanable --- aka e=mc^2.  And there's a notion
of the rest mass -- as measured when the observer is moving with the
mass. Or where the mass of the system is measured from the  center of
mass of momentum of the system.

But in my simlaiton, only velocity and position are being traded for energy.
There is no transform that allows mass to be traded for energy.  Mas
is fixes. And total enegy is defined by e=mc^2 in relativity.

KE = 1/2 mv^2.  Why is e=mc^2 and not 1/2 mc^2?

Oh, wait.  If two partics are moving away from each other at a relative
speed which is equal the speed of light. Then their absolute speeds
might be 1/2 the speed of light?  So the total kenetic energy is 2 *
1/2 m (c/2)**2?  Or 2 * 1/2 mc^2/4 Or mc^2/4.  Not mc^2.  Ugh that cuts
total energy in half not double it.

Ok wait.  How does energy change when the frame of reference for
measuring velociy change?  If I measure from the center of two particles
flying away at a relatve velocyh ot c, then we get that mc^2/4 number.
But if the frame of reference is taken from one of the particles so
it's velocity is zero, and the other is c, then the energy is 1/2m^c2.
Which is twice the system energy then the other frame of reference.

So, fuck, the total energy is not independent of the frame of reference.
Is this really the simple foundation of relativity?

Ok, but even if the total energy changes, doesn't relative energy changes
over time remain the same no matter what the frame of refernce is?

Ok, so if we take the frame of reference to be one particle, then look
at what's happening!  The observer is moving relative ot the center of
mass of the two paticle system.  Is that not hidden energy we are not
measuring that exists in effect IN the OBSERVER (so to say)?

So as a system, we can look at the nergy as a system of mass 2m moving
away from us at 1/2 c.  So energy using 1/2mc^2 is 1/2 2m (c/2)^2.
Or 1/4 m c^2

One particle moving away at speed of light is 1/2mc^2.  But two paritcles
moving away from the center if we are at the center, at 1/2c each, is 2 *
1/2m(c/2)^2 which is also 1/4 mc^2.

Ok, so the energy of a system is constant, if veloicy is measured relative
to the center of momentum (mass?) of the system.  Probably center of
momumtum.

But energy is really a made up measure.  What we have is just a system
of relative psotion and relative velocites in my netownian simluation
that is totally semetical.  It needs no defined "center" or "frame of
reference" by which to operate. It only needs reltiave locations of
particles and relative speeds.

So I have speculated that relativity effects are just an emergent
property of this simpler newtonian model.  And my thinking was that the
speed of light is really just a limitation of how fast kenetic energy
can be trasfered from one particle to another.   And though that seems
to be a possible fall out from the simple netown model due to how the
time dely effects of how force (potential energy) can chnage velocity
(kenetic energy), how do we explain the other effects of relative such
as the notion of time itself slowing down.  Which isn't just arbitray
nonense -- it's been measured and confirmed that atomic clocks slow down
when you put them in in a plane and fly around the world.

So, this is all pointing to the idea that all particles interact with
each other in the univese, but that the center of momentum of all those
particles establish an effective reference frame from the transfer
of energy from particle to particle.  Beuase when a small subsystem
of particles moves relative to all other, we can simple look at that as
a movement relative ot the center of momenutm of all the particles.

And if we take that sub-system and add kenetic energy to, we must have
removed energy from somewhere else in the univese to make that happen.
We must hae either taken kenetic energy from other particles, or changed
the relative potential enegy of the system.  Like particles move further
away, dislike move close.

So, does it somehow work out that when we accelerate an atomic clock,
we end up having to remove enrgy from it? And in so doing, slow it
down at the atomic level?  Reduce the size and speed of obrits and the like
in all the atoms in the clock?  But if we take the ke out of an obiting
electon, doesn't that speed up the orbit even if reduces the size of
the orbit? So if all the atoms of the clock saw KE removed, so that
they could all have higher KE reltave to the center of the univese,
all the atomic strcuture would shirnk, but wouldn't it speed up?

How can the an electon speed up, if we are removing KE?  Ah, what really
happens is that we remove PE?  So to make the clock as a system move
faster, PE is removed from the clock?

Ok, attack from a different direcftion.  If we hae a field of e and
p mixed and balanced, then in a system as large as an atomic clock we
have lots of particles so the average distance from any one particle to
ever other, will be approxiamtly equal -- no net PE? Whatever attraction
there is to all the e particles, will be balanced by the attraction to
all the p particles. Ah, but if I'm an e, then there there will be one
more p in the p set than there are total e to be repeled to!  So the
average attraction of all the other p wll be slightly higher than the
average repelling force of all the N-1 e particles.  So the movements
of this one p relative to the center of mass, is likely to repreasent
a net potential energy source!  So if the total system compacts, the
PE is reduced!  Even if the system has a balanced number of e and p!
Which forces the total KE to increase?

Or inversely, if part of the system sees an incrase in KE, either that
KE is lost from elsewhere, or there must be compaction in the system!

And, maybe even a sub-system like the clock, could compact relative to
each other to create that KE?

ORRRR, what if half the energy came out of KE to slow the clock down
and half came from PE to make it smaller? What if there was a natraul
tendency of the system to keep the PE and KE in some balance that forces
the lost energ to come from both?

This doesn't seem consistent with the idea of a simple orbit which seem to
require an increase in KE with a decress in orbit size. But more complex
orbits might be very different in this regard?  The complex orbit of an
atom might shirnk and get slower at the same time?

Or, the orbit of a netron might shirnk and get faster while the orbits
of electons shink and get slower or something odd like that?  So the
clock seems to slow down beause we arne't seeing the increase of KE in
the nutron orbits?

--

Ah, I just found an intersting idea in the wikepedia under Controversy
in the Mass is special relativity article (of how to tach relativity).

The argument seems to be that relative mass is a bougus soncpet, and that
the correct approach to explaning/deriving the concepts of relatiivty
is through the "conservation of monumtum" in all all frames.

Ok, so I think that's the key to understanding relativy.  It's what
falls out of the conservartion of momentum in all frames.

So I guess what we could be looking at, is that a newtoniam simulation
as I hae coded here, applied to the entire univese, then, if we defeine
a frame of reference in a different momentum frame, that it would also
see conservation of monumum in that different frame.

That seems like it could fall out simply from the idea that the entire
univdse hs conservation of monentum (which is clearn that the simulation
I've coded does), that if we pick a different frame of monumumt meaning a
moving frame of reference, that the the monumum would still be constant,
but offset by the monumum of our frame of reference.

And if our frame was accelearting (monentum changing) then the system we
observe, would not have constant momentum, but would instead, be chanaging
in monumum to offset the change of monumum of our frame of reference.

But what if the entire point of relativity was that even when we look
at a system under an accelearting frame of reference, conservation of
monentum as observed is still perserved?

But, of course, there's a huge question here.  The only type of observer
in this sytem, is made up of the same particles as the system we are
tring to measure.  So what relativity I wonder might reall be telling us,
is something about the innate problem of observation of a system from
within the same system.

So, could conservation of monument in any frame of reference, be
explained as a measurment effecvt?  That anythoing you can measuire,
must show conservation of monumtum relative to the measurement system?

This could all be true due to the fact hat all physics experments are
forced to work under this limitation -- all real world measurments are
done inside the system. So relativity concetps, derived from real world
experments, could all show the same global liminations of what measurments
can show.  Is this idea even logical? I don't know.  But it could be a
genral porblem of physics not being able to separate measurement limits
from their models.

----

[4:31 PM]

Just went out and sprayed week killer on lots of weeds in our beds.
Turned on some water to help water the grass.

Pig wants to do a movie at Bow Tie in Reason tonight.

So in physics, how fast does kenetic energy move through the system?

--

And, if we just accept the "truth" of relativity, it means the mass of
the particles increase with speed -- which would easy enough to code
into the simuation would it not?  If we just coded that into the system,
is that all that is needed?  Or are other distrotions to distance and
time needed as well?

================================================================================

2016-08-31 10:26 AM Wednesday

Yesterday

1) Finally figured out and fixed the startup warning messgae about
"global Bounce" being declared after it's set.  Was simple really.
I was just confused about which global it was talking about it seems.

2) Did some thinking about relativity and a little reading and learning.

Today

Think it's time for a quick zoom experment that I didn't get done
yesterday...

----

[12:38 PM]

Clean up display code.  Add pixelsPerAngstrom var to paramatize zoom.

Added functions to map space dimensions to screen pixels and back.

Made protons and electrons both bigger in display.

Expanded size of random starting cluster.

Wrote generic code to display distances between all protons in world[]
instead of the hard coded test using P1 P2 and P3.

Now looking closer at the two proton one electon behavior of how the
elctron likes to suck the two protons together and hold them.

I've seen a tendency for the two protons to suck together, but when I
leave a long run, I often find the protons have flown apart and are not
being sucked back together.  When they get too far apart the ability
to suck them together is too weak even if it's there.  Also when too
far apart, the electon doesn't see as likely to orbit towards the
other proton.

But I think I'm gaining some insight.  When they are too far apart they
get sucked together.  But then the monentum pushes them too close, and
that causes more of a figure 8 orbit where the el3ecton spends a lot of
time outside the pair, so the protons push each other apart.

So the protons end up oscillating back and forth.

But, there's a distinct change in the electon orbit.  It can be in a
arched figure 8, where the outside orbit of electon is very tight and
short lived so it spends a lot of time between the two protons sucking
them together. Or it can swtich to a winder figure 8, where it spends
more time outside allowing the two to push apart.

This switching of orbit styles I think is somewhat random and adds noise
into the proton ossilation.  I think if the protons start off too far
apart, the ossolation is near the escape velocity, and this random
noise of the orbit style, can trigger it to swing to far inward and
then fly outward too fast and too far allowing them to escape the hold
of the electon.

But I think maybe if they start off with the right distance relative
to the energy of the system, they don't ossilate as much and tend to
hold together.  I also don't know how much of all this is simlation
error vs real justified behavior.  Just saying.

But the idea, is that a given amount of energy, will define the center
point of the proton oscilation and we start the system too far away
from that it's random ossiclation could cause the sytem to fly apart in
time. But if we start it near the blance point, it should hold together
far longer?

Formal testing of this could be done.

Oh, the test I had running that seemed more stable seems to be flying
apart now.  What seems to happen, is that the protons get too much kenetic
energy in them flying part, which at the same time steals connectic energy
from the electon shorting it's orbit and "reach" to hold the two together.
So they fly off too fast while the electon looses power and it can't pull
them back.  Ah, but wait, they got out to a distance of 7A and now they
are comming back together. But I fear this oscilation pattern might be
amplifuing out of control and it will fly apart in a few more cycles?

All this was just getting ready to zoom and see if the behavior looks
the same when closer or if there is behavior change when we zoom.

----

Ok, started to play with zoom.  Saw really really odd behavior at first
like the second particle was being ignored and had no effect on the orbit
of the elecotn.  Then relaized I had added some Z offsets that I couldn't
see on the screen. The two particles were in fact so far apart in the
Z dimension that it didn't have any effect!  So I got rid of the Z offset.

Now I have a test running with a .003 A spacing between the protons.

And now, it's looking like the behavior is exacatly the same at the small
scale, as at the large -- except all the velocites are much faster and
the simluation has to run at a smaller DT.

And I had to reduce the RLimit to make it smaller to keep it from messing
up the orbits.

NO, wait, I'm seeing something different.  The protons seem to be getting
closer together and I saw a few orbits where the electon was able to do
a loop around both of them!

I'm thinking inertia has more effect when zoomed in -- as if the mass
has been increased relative to the zoomed out version.

Behavior is very similar, but orbits of the electon seem more rounded
and the speed of the oscilation of the protons is slower.

And now the protons are flying apart after they can very close together
and I think they have reached esscape velocity.

----

[2:46 PM]

Just scheduled bike ride with Dave.  Point of rocks to Sheaperstown. For
Saturday. (labor day weekend!)

Playing with 10p10e run.  With z added as well. But no z bounce.
Just thought I'd let it run for a while.  Since I can't "see" the z
dimension it's hard to grasp what is happening.  Just wonder if it might
converge into something intersting given a long enough time.

But I can't tell if some particles are flying off to nowwhere in the z
dimension taking energy with them.

Would also be intersting do to unbounded tests to see if the cluster
stays together or keeps expanding or what.

ideas for better UI would include showing close particles as larger
circles and far away as smaller to get a 3D view of distance.  Having
roate and spin options would be good.  And maybe a wire frame cube to
mark orrientation.  And zoom and shift.


BTW, added RlimitCount and BounceCount to display so I know if the
simulation has been distorted by these effects for long running
simulations I haven't watched.

Oh, other UI -- a record and play back in real time would be fun.
Or, just a number cruch run with no display followed by a display.
Or pause play with number crunching and recording always running
in background.

----

[7:31 PM]

Went to home depot and got spring and tube for possible use on rebuilding
bike rack before Saturday ride.

Went to nodles and co with pig.  Then back to merifield post office to
drop off package from Pig to Julie.

Back home playing with hose to water side yard.

--

Added size chagnes in display based on z axis.  Sort display by z to
draw front to back.  Still doesn't look very 3d however.

Need to look into mouse control of rotation.

Could add persepctive reduce to back as well.  With size change matching
perspective.

Not seeing any tendecy of particles to self organize into atoms.  May be
very sensitive to total energy vs density in the sytem?  Might of course
be becaue this model has no hope of doing that anyhow!

================================================================================

2016-09-01 2:06 PM Thursday

Yesterday

1) Lots of little stuff to display.  Added size shift for z axis.
Cleaned up code. Made more things paramatized. sort by z to draw back
to front.

2) Added zoom and took a look at behavior when we zoom in and then adjust
for simulation speed.  Mostly, it looks almost the same.  But yet I
think I'm seeing a difference -- inertia seems to play a more important
role so objects tend to keep going straight more?  More circular orbits
instead of flat at this scale?  Don't know if this is true or not.
I should look at the math and try to see what it suggests.

Today

Need to fix rack for bike ride Saturday. Could go to meeting tonight
with the group I've never been too -- humanists or something -- but
they are debating the book that suggests mind uploads could domanate
the near future.  Need to get web site for BGOP set up on new service
as well.  Not much time to really work on physics today but I'm playing
with it anyway.

----

Made massive changes in scale from:

pixelsPerAngstrom = 0.00001

pixelsPerAngstrom = 100000.0

And I'm not seeing any general difference  in the behavior.  The random
start recales the distance between particles to match the zoom, and the
dt adjust recales the time step, and in the end, it all looks the same
on the scale.

So one is running at e+7 velocity while the other is e0 to e2 range.
But on the screen, the rescalled sizes all run at the same general
visual speed.

So without checking the math and thinking carefully, these particles
are scale invariant.  Relative to each other, they can expand or shirnk
in there would be no aparent difference.  But not energy invariant!
But energy is measure din the units I choose so that's true and just
really a choice of units at the different scales.

--

So thought, I'm looking at 2 electon and 2 proton and they seem to like
to go into one tight orbit and one electon bouncing all over the screen.

So, this orbit behavior has a lot to do with the random starting
psotion and the total energy the posotion represents.  So it seems to
me it would be useful to chagne the random code to allow me to set the
starting energy in the system.  So each random starting psotion could
hvae the same starting energy to compare how it evolves.  And so I can
create systems that are slow energy enough that they don't send electrons
bouncing all over the walls as well!

----

Maybe, create random protons. Then create random electons all a fixed
distance away from each matching proton as a way to establish the
starting energy.  Won't make it exactly the same, but puts it in the
ball park I'm thinking.  And easy to code maybe.

Or, maybe just a kenetic energy fudge for all particles is easier?

================================================================================

2016-09-01 10:40 AM Friday

Yesterday

1) Did massive change in scale to compare very small with very large.
End result is that the behavior of particles didn't change at all.

Today

Did no work on bike yesterday.  Must do it today to get ready for long
bike trip tomorrow.  As well as pack and load up things and charge
batteries.  Also would like to get web site done before going to BGOP
meeting tonight.  And need to remember to bring $50

Went to DCT meeting at Pentagon City last night.  Took silver line train
to Blue line.  Went fine.  Parked illegally at Tyson's.  Then it was
raining comming home got somewhat soaked running in rain.  Meeting was
fun being around nerds talking nerdy stuff.  5 of us total.  The other
4 for regulars of the meetings as far as I know.  They only get together
once very 3 months.

---

On scale tests...

Once the system speeds up and slows down time to maintain same relative
error in simulation, the behavior seems identical.  Which implies
for these rules of simlation the system is totally scale invarant.
Smaller systems run faster, but act just the same as larger systems in
the same relative configuation.  So when the particles spread apart,
they don't act any different they just act the same way and slow down.

Relative path is identical at large scale and small.

So I can study the system at any scale to learn it's behavior.  And,
oddly time and force and distance are relative, mass is relative, but
there is no absolute at work in these equatons.

So the path an article takes is depent on the relative path and speed
of all other particles, but if you scale distance up you can scale speed
down and the path remains identical.

But in my tests, I didn't change mass.

If we change relative mass the behavior most certainly changes --
like making both particles the same mass instead of the 2000:1 ratio.
But what if we just change the mass by multiplying each by 10000?
Does the behavior stay the same but the speed just changes?

----

Ok, tried using mass *= 1000 for both and mass /= 1000 for both with
random starts of 2p and 2e and again, I couldn't notice anything that
looked like different behavior.  The larger mass made them run slower, but
once rescalled for time and speed the behavior still all looked the same.

So with these simple newtonian equaltions and only two particles, the
only equations are f=ma and f=1/d^2  And the ratio of the two masses.
So if this is the foundation of the univese, there is only one constant
which is the mass ratio, and these two equations (in 3D space).  All other
constnants are just arbitrafy unit conversions.

Lets try to verify that by making the mass of the electon 1, and
removing making the KE (Columns constant) 1.  And just mass of proton
to be relative ot mass of Electon.

----

Added FakeConstants = True flag to change all constants to 1.0 except the
mass of the protron which is 1836.15267376 to maintain the ratio to the
mass of electon at 1.0.  BVehavior seems the same except the simulation
starts up moving faster. I think this is just due to the fact that my
Random start sets velocity to 100*random() and does't scale for units.
Behavior seems identical otherwise.

So, units and constants are not important other than the mass ratio.
Behavior is otherwise all the same just scalled to different units.
So the only thing that's important for the starting configuation is
density vs velocity I guess?  So whatever constants I use define what
the distance vs velocity or distance vs montumtum ratio is?

Real units are of course important when trying to match the real universe
but othersise, seem unimportant in understanding how these systems of
particles behave.

High speed forces smaller orbits.  Which is odd.  So higher starting
speeds should lock into smaller orbits?  eh?  Confusing.  So a proton will
capture an electon if it gets close enough. But the higher the speed of
the electon, the close it needs to pass before it will grab it I think.
So with random staring higher speeds will force it to fly around longer
before a proton is able to grap the high speed electon?  But in the end,
it will?

And very dense but low speeds means they all lock into orbits isntantly
but then form very complex behaviors?

I'm trying to grasp if we will see very different behaviors at different
densities and speeds.  The sun is very different than the rest of the
system it seems.  Black holes should be odd if graviy theory is correct.
But if gravity can be shown to be an emergent property of atomic orbatal
dynamics. (AOD).  This sort of invarant behavior of these equations make
me wonder the different really is?  How can we have a hot plasma where
nothing is in orbit and steady?  Won't all the high speed particles end
up locking into tight small orbits? then the pair holds that energy in
a tight space -- taking it out of the system?

Well, I feel I need to test with some very high starting velocities and
see what by room does -- with no energy loss, do all the electons end
up pairing with protons in tight orbits?

Then we have the KE of the set vs the KE of the individuals?  Ok
this is a direction to exllore.

--

UI thought... draw a perspetive box with the window being the front face
and map the particles to that perspective.  Draw shadows on the floor,
or maybe walls to help create the undestanding of 3D motion!

----

Ok, playing with speed is odd.  Setting to zero breaks the simulation due
to the auto adjust of dt using KE error to set DT.  It forces dt to be
soo small the particles never move.  Or maybe if I wasted a few days they
would?  Setting it to 10 gets things working, but is about the same as
before with it set to 100 (well random*100 which os 0 to 100).  Setting
to ta large number like 1000000 or somnething breaks the simlation as
well.  The particles move far off the screen in one jump and the "bounce"
code moves them back on instead of calculationg a valid bounce.  Particles
end up being suck in the corners flashing.  Let me see how fast I can
set it without breaking the simulation.

--

Also have noticed that my ball size code is wrong.  Balls that aren't
moving are changing size as other arpticles move.  I think I'm using
min and max z to scale vs true min and max room size boundties to scale.
Gota fix that.

---

Leting 2p2e run.  One in tight orbit, the other electon keeps flying
around and bouncing off the walls.  Wondering if the second proton will
cpature it at some oint.

But now I realize I probably had an error in my thinking.  When it's far
away from the protron, it has a speed, that if it were close enough,
that speed would lock it into a tight orbit. But as it appraoches,
the speed keeps increasong.  I think we have a situation where the Ke
is just too great to allow it to lock into any orbit at all. As it gets
close enough to orbit, the speed keeps increasing to the point that it
won't ever orbit.

Too much KE prevents it from ever orbting.  Even having the system
spread out won't change that.

Oh, but wait, if the e and p were moving together, in the same direction
their relative speed would allow them to lock into orbit.  But the system
as a whole would still have the KE in it.  So they could bounce around
as an energetic pair of particles maybe.

But in my current test, the protons seem to stand still mostly and the
electons fly around.  It even feels as if the electons are taking ke
out of the protons in their interactions.

I think I need to look at the KE vs density (PE) vs speed closer to see
how things tend to shift.  Adding the averget KE tracking per particle
seems useful still.

Doing tests where the elecotns have all the monumtum and prtons start
standing still and see how things change would be useful.  And likewise
the inverse.

Being able to randomly start with a fixed KE or fixed total energy is
likely to be useful as well.

I need to better understand this basic sort of stuff about how these
interact. fixing the emulation to llow a zero ke start and where high
speeds don't break the emulation seem important as well.

================================================================================
================================================================================
================================================================================

2016-09-17 9:39 AM Saturday

Yesterday

1) No real work in a few weeks

Today

Who knows.

Life

I was distracted by the bike ride Sat.  I hung out at the forge I think
Sunday. Then I came down with a cold that wipped me out for a week.
When I got better, I got the grass cut.  Replaced the blade on the edger
and edged the yard for the first time in a while as well.  Been doing
watering -- Ma's tree and the birch are suffering.  Leaves dying.
I think this was caused by the high heats we had this summer and the
fact I didn't pay attenten and water the yard -- it got really dry.  up.

It's been a week almost since I basical got better from the cold, but
I'm slow to get back to work.  Lots of time wasted on facebook.

Had a common core debate on facebook.  These closed minded conservative
types really can't even grasp something like 2nd grade common core math.
The question example was "how to make 10" on 8+5.  They think it's asking
how to get 10 by adding 8+5 which is stupid.  But it's asking how to
do the re-grouping to get the answer.  But not only do they fail to
grasp what it's asking when they frist see it, even after I take time
to write long explanations about what they are teaching and asking,
they still CAN NOT UNDERSTAND WHAT I"M TALKING ABOUT!

SO fucking frustrating to have to debate stupid people on facebook.

So fucking frustrating to know that over half the population are stupid
in this way.  The Trump Clinton crap is on going.  Trump has been ganining
in the polls and Clionton slipping.  Down to a 1.5 point lead for Clinton.
OMG -- I live in a nation of idiots.

Been watching a lot of TV at night on netflex.  Watching Angel
lately. ABout half way though the series.  FInished all of Buffy a few
weeks back.  Watching Person of Interst at the same time but slowly.

Been working on losing weight.  Stopped my daily runs to Starbucks
for the first time in like 20 years.  Figured all that milk wasn't
helping my high liver fat problem or my total weight.  Been drinking
coffee from the Keurig instead.  Trying to cut back on caffeine as
well.

Been up just above 230 for a while which is as fat as I've been in two
years -- since before sarting Ingress.  Was down to as low as 215 avg.
212.3 was the lowest recorded last November after a fall of lots of bike
riding on my Sondors.

In the past coupld of weeks I've crashed down to a low of 222.9 as of
this morning.  Something like 7 lbs in 2 weeks.  Might be dangerous to
lose too much too fast, but I'm going to try and keep my food intake low
and see if I can get below 210 soon.  I need more exercise.  Yesterday,
I never went out of the house -- pig brought be home a quater pointer
and that's all I had to eat yesterday exacept the coffee and other such
snacks. The step count was like 140 this morning.  Ha ha.  Only 140
steps all day!  Not the 10K they want you to get!  But that is of course
lower than real beause I don't always carry my phone with with me to
get the steps.  But still, was under 500 for real I'm sure.

Oh, moved the BGOP web site from iPage hosting to godaddy to save a few
hundred dollars.  $4 a month for 3 year intro rate vs $11 renewal rate
on iPage.  Having that on my todo list was also distracting me from
working on physics or AI.

Life continues to be very depressing.  Lonley.  Now that newsreader is
shut down and I'm not working at Mount Vernon and I'm backing off from
participation in the Guild, my life is mostly just empty.  I just hang
out at home and I'm not motivated to go out.  I have trouble sleeping
due to massive fears of what's going to happen when the money runs out.

I wake up in a panic -- sometimes just a dream that ha snothing to do
with reality -- sometimes panic about real life.

I'm desparate for validation and attention, and I bassically get none
in life any more. I try to post clever things to facebook to get
attention, but most the time, people are just quick to call me an
idiot.

I've solved the hard problem of conscioness.  A fucking 2000 year old
problem and I've solved it.  I've seen nobody else share this answer.  I'm
the only one in the world that seems to actually understand the answer.
It's a simple illusion crated by the fact we can't sense our private
toughts with our external sensors.  But yet, no matter how many times I
post about this on the internet, no one seems to really undrstand it.
Some people understand that the answer is it's an illuison. But they
don't undrstand how this fully explains that this IS the illusion.

I've spent my life, trying to do something great to get attention,
and now that I've solved one of the great mysteries of moderen times,
no body undrstands the answer.  What a fucking torture.

And of course, I sovled AI as well.  Simply by understanding that skinner
had solved it 50 years ago -- and nobody understood his answer.  Poor guy,
he died knowing he had solved the mystery of human behavior but that the
world was too stupid to understand his greatness.  He had the concepts
correct, but because he never built the answer, they didn't undrestand
he was correct.

I'm very close to having a working solution to AI.  I have to get back
to that and try to finish it before I run out of money.  Temporal, Deep,
Reinforment learning.  Where every node has temporal memory.  That's the
full answer to Ai, but yet, most the world is too stupid to know it's
the answer.  Fucking idiots.

I dreamed as a very young kid of being that guru on top of a mountain that
eeryone would come to for wisdom.  I would be the person that knew all the
answers. Or at least, was able to help people undersand things they didn't
understand.  I dreemed of being famous -- the person everhone knew about.

Guru's are known for spirtial enlightement.  Which is not my thing.
Maybe it should be.  But I'm an engineer and scientits type, not a mystic.
My idea has always been to get famous by creating something great.
Thomas Edison was my hero -- I remmebr reading a book about him in about
the 7th grade I think.  That is who I wanted to be.  Invent the light
bulb and change the world forwever.  Go down in history for changing
the world.

Or the Write Brothers. With flight.

Or Steve Jobs.  Or Dennis Ritchie Ken Thompson.

Or Bill Gates.

Or Mark Zucckerberg.

Or Alexander Graham Bell

But I'm not a strong leader. Not a leader at all.  So I really don't
have what it takes to be a Steve Jobs or Bill Gates or Mark Zucckerberg.
Because all of them are not just smart, and creative, but strong leaders
that push others into implementing their dreams.

Even Thomas Edison was that way -- pushing the likes of Nickola Tesla
to implement his dreams. But he only had small sets of reserach assitants.

because I don't have the drive to make people work for me.  My strength
is in my strong (ENTP) Percpetion skills that gives me a very open and
flexible mind.

So, I'm really more cut out to be the type that creates something
great like Ken Thompson, or Bell, or the Write Brothers.  I'm not good
at following through to implment my ideas -- but that lack of drive to
stick to a single path is where my strugth to find andwers that others
never find comes from -- I have the ability to endlessly explore in
different directions -- never liking to stay in a single path too long.

This is where teaming up with the rigth person would pay off -- teaming
up with someone that has the drive to stay on a path and finish a dream
vs just finding it.  But I've struggled to find anyone to team up with.

A lot of my posting on the internet about AI for the past 10 or 15
years has all been about trying to find someone to team up with --
and all I've found is endless idiots telling me I'm a fool instead.

But I'm no fool.  Even if I'm the only one that knows it.

[Don Cooper just called -- didn't really want to answer but felt rude
not do.  He wants to borrow my pressure washer.  Ugh.  Fine, he's comming
over later. He's about to put his house (next to ours) on the market.
I'll have to dig it out, and get it working and show him how to use it...]

[10:48 AM] -- timestamp

So in all my debates about AI, I've solved the hard problem of
consciousness as a side project.  But no one understands the answers
so I get no credit for this.  A few seem to accept the answer, but no
one has replied in a way that I feel they really got it.  It was mostly
just a polite, "ok, I hear you, I guess" sort of reply.  Most just tell
me I'm wrong, or I don't understand what consciness is.  To me, when I
relized it, it was a massive eye opening epipthany.  No one I've shared
the idea with seems able to connect like that.

It was an epipthany to me not just because it made sense logically,
but beause I could SENSE the ILLUSION IN ME.  And once I relaised the
illusion existed in me, I was able to fix it (though it took weeks or
months to unlearn the error).  No one I've shared the idea seems to be
able to sense the illusion at work in them.  Even tbhough, based on how
they talk, they clearly are under its spell.

So, I solve a 20000 year old puzzle, and no one understands I've solved
it.  Depressing.  Frusting. Creates great rage in me when people call
me a fool, becuase thye are too stupid to recognize my genius. And there
is nothing I can do about it.

And despite my genius, simple things like spelling I can't get right
to save my ass.  Becuaes I have no ablity to care enough about how a
word is spelled, to take the time to memorize stupid rules like that.
So this lack of attention to detail that gives me my cognative strength,
also makes me look weak minded and stupid to those that do memorize how
to spell words. Which makes it harder for them to accept that maybe in
this weak minded bable, there is a genus idea lerking.

In addition to solveing the hard problem of consciousness, I've solved
the problems of understanding ethics.  Ethics and morals all derive from
goal driven systems and the ethic of a goal dirven system ot to reach the
goal. Any behavior that hleps get closer to the goal, is a good ethic,
and any that pushs away from the goal is a bad ethic.

All ethics are relative to the goal system we refer to.

And in humans, there are two major distanct goals that drive our behavior
-- which is why ehtics is not absolute, but relative in humans.

But moreal relativity that implies a culture can have ANY moreals and
be correct, is not true. It can only have morals realtive to a goal
driven system.  And the two goal dirren systems that have major contorl
over human beahvior is first our brain, which is driven by rewards.
So seeking pleasure and escaping pain is the goal of our inteligent
ethics. But evolution has the goal of surival, which is what shaped our
brain and it's goal.  And though the process of evolution of culture,
evoution fills our brain with surival ethics.

It's this conflict between the ethical goals of intelience -- which is
pain avoiing, and the ethical goal of evolution, that our culture becomes
filled with, that creates the moral and ethical conflict in our society.
It is what creates the conservative liberal split in society.

So, I've solved the mystery of AI, and the mystery of ethics, And the
mystery of why we have a consevative/liberal split in human society.
But yet, when I share this wth people it goes right over their head,
because the way they have bene taught to talk about these things, don't
leave room for my words that acurutally explain the truth. They can't
understand my words, because th words they have been taught, are too
different. They can't find a way to fit them togehter.

Likewise, I fully understand that phsyicalism is the only correct
philospohical descirpiton of reality.  But 99% of philosophers seem unable
to understand or accept this beause their undrestanding of reality is
based on (false) words, not actions and behavior.

The illusion that creates the cofusion of conciness, I call the illusion
of duality. And I now understand now deeply this misconcpetion is woven
into the fabric of our language and cutlure.  It is what allows people
to accept the logically abusrd idea of a god.  If our body comes with a
non-hsyhical "mind" why can't the unviese (as a body) also come with a
non-psyical super-mind?  Aka GOD -- it just "fits together cleanly. But
wrong.

And of course, mind uploading is all baesed on the error -- the believe
that the mind is seprate and can be "moved" is all a false idea that
comes form the false seperation.

The idea of information being a "thing" in the unviese, when it's not.
The idea that information is separate from the phsyical is the same
misake of duality.

And the idea that econmics is all a big AI.  And that the way to fix
econmics is to create a Basic Income to fix the reward function to
optimize th fit of this AI to the needs of INTELIGENT humans (vs law
of the jungle surivalist humans).  An idea I don't seem to see well
understood or accepted that I figured out.

I think the world can't accept this, beaues they don't undrestand
that Skinner was righ and that inteligence is nothing but a simple RL
algoirthm.  And I can't make  progress getting though to these idiots
until I build a working human level AI and show them how stupid they
have been. So that's on my short todo list.

Then there's all this cool phsics stuff I'm hot on the path of.

I've shared with Tauge and Chappell, and a few places on th einternet some
of the ideas, and Taugue just seems to think I'm a fool.  But Chappel
seems a bit more open minded to the idea that emergent behavior could
be intersting.

But what is already OBVIOUS to me, is that wave particle duality of
quntum mechanics is all an illsion -- an emergent property of how the
atoms work, not a fundamental propperty of nature.  So, photons are bull
shit. They aren't particles. They are just an emerent profty of the fact
that energy gets INSTENTAIOUSLY trasfered by the electrostic field,
though large systems of particles but results in quantum sized jumps,
when enough energy has been transferfed to cause an electon in orbit, to
be kicked out of orbit -- whcih uires a precise amount of escape velocity
enety to kick it out -- and that is what is falsely seen as a "photon".

So the answer to understanding how to reduce all of phsyics, will be
found by understanding how fundamental praticles work in the atom.

And what's 99% likely, is that neetruons are not paritlcs but just
an electon and proton coupled in an tight orbit.  Making electons and
protons the only particles in the universe.

And likewise, all of high energy phsyicls that believe they are
discovering more fundamental sub atomic paritcles, is all bull shit.
They are studying the emergent beahvior of larger and larger SYSTEMS
of internacting paricles and extending the same photon error, to larger
and larger scales of nonense.

Relativity and the speed of light might well be a fundamental emergent
propety as well, where the speed at which KENETIC enegy can move though
the unviese filled with interacting particle, is limited to the speed
of light.  But I'm not 100% sure about that yet.

But if I continue down this path, I bet I can crack the fundamental nature
of the univese as well -- which is likely just electons, protons, and
one type of field.  But maybe with reltivistic effects at work as well.
The strong force and gravity are both likely emergent forces as well.

I don't know what is beong worked in on phsyics very well at all, but
from what reports I see friends share, I see no sign anyone is working on
this paproach of modling simple particls to find that the ergement propty
crated by complex orbital interactions is the source of all the other
higher level features like quantum mechans, and realitify.  So I think
I probaly have deacdes to finsih this work and still beat eveyone else.

But in AI, others are getting really close finally after all this time.

So I probably need to finish that if I'm going to make first place
in that historic endevor.  What that seem to be missing, is that they
are using deep learning networks to calcuate Q values, instead of
calucting ACTIONS. Which means the outputs are low dimension, instead
of high.  And they don't seem to have solutiosn for temporal learning
which requires memoryh in every cell. They are doing it with extra
time delay inputs , and with feedback loops, instead of with memory
in each cell -- so I probably have them all beat that way -- if nobody
else has gapsed this. But I've only got a few years lead on this
now I would guess. Not decades anymore.

So, lets sumurize my Ai work todate.  45 years of work thnking about it.
Say from 1972 to today?  Something like 10th or 11th grade in highschool.
That's 44 years.

1) I decided since the brain is a nework of neurons, the solution
would have to logically be a network of processing nodes as well.
So inputs from senosrs on one side, outputs ot effectors on the other.
Massive parallel network archtecture at the core.

2) Must have learning, and due to skinner making it clear we are
RL machines -- and due to the fact that no other form of learning
_hardware_ fits logicall, that we need a reward signal to shape
the ntwork of neurons. So rewadinput to the entire network.

3) Decided it must be general purpose so that the algoirthms and
learning are independent of the data -- meaning we can connect
any sensory data to any input, and connect any output to any effector
and the system will learn just as well -- no algorithms inside
the network to optimize to the data domain.  But "tuning" of the
system to optimize it's fit to the problem domain is valid and
expected.

4) Decided there was a percpetion problem here that needed to be solved
as well as action learning.  The perception algorithm turns raw sensory
data into an internal state represenation of the enviornment, through
a compression like alogrhtm so that the internal state contained as
MUCH information about the state of the envioment as possible -- an
information maximising appraoch that would remove redundant data in the
state reprastion so as not to waste represnation space.

This same perception algoirthm can be thought of as a compresion
algorithm, or as an infomration maximising, or as a feature extraion
algoirthm.  All are valid ways to look at the same problem.  Close
parallels to what PCA and ICA are doing.

5) Decided that perception and RL aciton learning, had to be done
TOGETTHER -- or overlap -- so that tystem learns what state data is
the most important, and distortes the internal state mapping, to not
just maximizse data about the enviroment, but to maximie the VALUE of
the internal state represenation.  It automtiacllyh focuses more state
"attention" on the things that matter the most!

My solutions tend to merge both percpetion and action learning into the
nodes of the network so each node is doing both.

So the state/action nework maximises information VALUE at evey level!
Or, action learning to maximisethe vale of actions, should be one and
the same thigns, as state value maximisnig!

Thew hole system is linking state to action so the goal is to maximise
the value of those links!

6) FEEDBACK to create action sequences --- The above network that
maximises state to action mapping to learn behavior, solves the problem
of what ACTION does the system take given the state of the envioment. It
combines patterhs to creates ouptuts.  Bulding a large feature extraion
network. But it doesn't do the reverse that is also needed -- combine
features and micro-actions to create action sequences.  That is sort of
a revfers tree bujilding problem.

But I figured out around the year 2000, that the way to do that was simply
with feedback. feed the neowrk outptus (what the network is telling the
effctors to DO) back to extra inputs so the system can "see" what it's
doing -- so that what the system is "doing" controls what it "does next".
This is a solution I've known about now for 15 to 20 years, but never
implemented, buase until I get the basic action learning network working,
adding the feedback is pointless.

But this is a key concept to how to make it work!  And what I strongly
be,.live to be the answer ot what the motor cortect actually is!
It's the motor feedback half of the cortext.

This I consider another of my great revelations that I've never seen
anywhwere else in the neurscience lit.  But, I did share this idea on
the discussion web site for Jeff Hawkin's ON Inteligence book, but got
no recognition of it being a cool idea.  And them, a few years later, I
saw Jeff ecohing my idea in a video recoding of a talk he was making. He
said it was known by neurscience -- but I think maybe he just picked
it up from me. :)  Or maybe others do know it? Again I've not seen it
ANWYERE except in my writing, an in Jeff's youtube video.

7) My recognition that _temporal_ patern matching is the KEY to everything
the percpetion algoirtthm is doing. It's how the brain learns to extract
objects.  And it's why, so many of the patern recogntion algithsm, that
end to be made to work on images, do such a bad jobs of correctly parsing
3D objects in images!  It's how imges chagne OVER TIME, that tells us
what a cat is!  Not what color it's hair is compared to tbhe backgound!
It's IMPOSSIBLE to learn hnow to correct object parsing without using
temporal image procssing.

This was all made aware to me by that crazy guy in comp.AI posting about
Jeff Hawkin's obssesion with temporal processing. And through that, I too
came to relaize how right Jeff was about that. Even if the crazy dued was
crazy, he was dead right about this. (I think he's a scientologist that
seems to be trying to crate AI to do a mind upload thing for his cult).

But the reason all the current system fails to parse iamages correctly
is exactly beuase it'x not a temporal algorithm. And the reason, even
though you can TRAIN a spial network to get very high scores on image
recognition, that it can break so badly at times (doesn't see the same
way we do) (described as very fragile learning) is that it's not doing
the temporal assocation learning -- it's all based on SPAITAL assocation
learning.

So, again, a big mystery to many is how the brain parases data and
even though we have algorithms that score higher than humans on image
recogntion, they don't seem to "see" the same way we do.  And tey don't
"understand why". I do.  Fully solved it.  It's temporal assocation
that sovles it.  But again, I've not seen anyone I've shared this show
an understanding.  I'm uncverong the mysteries of the unviese, and ntye
hitnk I'm crazy.

8) The scaling problem is solved by using a distrbuted learning network!
Another key breakthough concept I figured out.  The entire problem
of building RL that duplicated human inteligence has long been only a
scaling problems.  We know how to build perfect RL learning algirhtms
for small problems but no one has yet figured out how to scale it
to sovle the hihgh dimension, non markov problems the brain solves.
And the key to how to solve the scaling problem is to make the system
re-factor the big problem, down to smaller problems, and then sovle each
smaller problem. All done in a distributed network.  JUST LIKE CAPITALISM.
Each node solves it's own small part of the puzzle, and the collective
societ then all working oether, produces the inteligent solution, as
it's EMRGENT behavior!  It's able to learn ver quistly, becasue it's
billions of small indepdent learning machines, all learning in parallel,
at the same time! Another KEY concept to how it works.

9) Information preservation.  To learn by RL, the infomration from the
inputs, must be perserved, and sent to all the outputs.  I had problems
in early neworks were information was lost half way through the network
(multipied by zero in effect).  A network can't learn to react
to that input data, if th data is thrown out and not used to control
any behavior at all! And likewise, if input data is not sent to output X,
then otput X can never learn to use that input data.  So in effect,
alli nput data must be sent to EVERY output!  With the only thing that
needs to be learned, is how the data is mixed and matched and how each
data chagnes the mix of other data!  But the key concept is that every
output in effect always needs to be a complex mix, of every input,
or else learning by reinforcement is not posisble!

This lead to the pulse sorting approach that every input pulse had
to be sorted all the way to the outputs and not lost in the network.
But also not forked and uplicated (the problem I had in the old neowrk
long ago, was that one input would expand and flood the net, blocking
the ability of other inputs ot reach that part of the network.  So
to make sure no data was lost, I also have to make sure no data
takes over control of the network.

9) Async pulse networks are a better fit to the temporal pattern
learning problem.  This I think is true, but it's not yet proven.
Our classic tpe of value networks that act as syncrihous fucntion
with many inputs, falls directly out of our thinking that is biased
by written lagnauge -- with drawing state diagrams on a fixed
peace of paper -- just like an artist drawing of life, is a frozen
point in time of the world -- and a book or commic strip, is a step
by step adving form one frozen moement to the next -- just as how
we make movies work.  And how most classical neurla netowrks are
coded -- accepting one set of inputs as a SPATIAL slice in time.
Our historic use of writting on paper, and rawing on paper, had
distroted how we think about these problems as spatial problems
instead of temporal problems.  Switching to async pulse networks
has allowed me to learn to thn about the probnlem in a very different
perspective that I think is helping ot lead me to better answer!

But, it might be possible to slove the problem with aync pulse
networks, then translate the soution, back to a spatial syncrhrnised
solution. (each input value is just a count of the numebr of puses
over a fixed time interval), and this trasnlation might run better
on our modren off the shelf hardware.

10) Secondary reinforcement.  A key concept from behaviorism that is built
into all RL algorithms but which most people that don't understand RL fail
to grasp the imporartnce and power of.  The system mustnot just learn from
rewards, but must also be a high quality future reward PREDICTOR and that
most learning, happens by changes to the PREDICTIONS, not hard rewards.
We learn to see money, as a reward! (a classic strong exmpale) and we are
trained by the money, not by the food or sex that money buys.  So the act
of getting money, is a reward for us, and that act trains the behavior
(just like a clicker is used to train a dog without having to give him
treats all the time). The network MUST implement reward prediction,
and use that to train itself.

11) Adjusting actions based on rewards, can be the same thing as reward
prediction.  Something that hit me one day. The q value that is used to
shape actions, is the same q value that is the reward predictor.  Or,
if we biase action with a weight, that weight that controls the biase
of action, is also valid to be used as the reward predictor!  Not the
only wy to do it, but an intersting connection I made one day that I had
missed before.  It applied more strongly to the one archictecture I was
exploring at the time than to the general case. There is a complex problem
of exploration vs explotation that can mean that our action policy is
not just argmax(q) but reward prediction using arg max is more accuate of
what is possible, than what we actually try. (the fonation of q learning).
So, in the end, this 11) is not so imporant.

12) Deep learning, like RBM are doing the precpetion algoirhtm I need
to make this work.  Except it's only a SPATIAL soution, not a temporal
solution.a

13) for 15 yars I've know I needed this percpetion algoirhtm to work
and all this time, I've not been able to figure out how to code it,
until the beginnign of this year (2016) when I finally figured out
a dead simple souiton that looks really strong -- but needs testing
to confirm.  It's using the eliglibity trace as the fountion of
the nodes short term memory of activity level, and using Bassian like
logic to biase the sorting of all pulses to the node that is the most
active. This mirrors the act of multiplying probablity distirbutions
to create a prio estimate!

Then adjust bias weights, (w values) BACKWADS form teh not downstreem
node that received each pulse!  Decreaes the w the path took and
increate the path to the other upstreadm nodes! This backwards looking
learning aproach seem to be the key I never found before!  It makes
the down stream nodes FIGHT each other, over the right to receive
pulses!

14) I have what seems to be a pretty good RL algoirthm for this type
of net as well. But I'm currently stuck with the problem that the
two solutions don't play well together!  Ugh. I need them to both
work together in the same node! Maybe alternatin lvels of percpeiotn'
and RLlearning could work?  But it seems to be there SHOULd be a way
to make them play well together --- to value maximise the mapping!
So that is what is left to resovle and may be the ONL thing standing
betgween me and human level AI (that an enough hardware to duplicate
the human brain that is). But if the algoirthm is strong and good
it should do cool things in small versions as well --- like make
robots act alive and conscious!

15) So all the above adds up to the simple idea that the solution to
AI is just a statistical probabistic data mapping system that learns
the best way to map sensory data to actions, so as to maximise rewards.
It's a massive parallel statstical probablity system that shapes behavior
out of chaos.  It's a random chaos generator, that can be shaped by
rewards. Which must also act as a very strong reward PREDICTOR system.
The stregnth of it's learning, is really all hidden in the strength of
it's ability to predict fugure rewards!  And the lack of strong prediction
is why no one has made it work yet. But these distributednetworks I
am working on with the strong temporal percetion system, shoudl do it
just fine.

----

Ok, so I really need to move the above to the AI file.  Will do that
later. But just seemed like fun to write it down and remind myself of
the progress I've made.

Lets turn to physics since this is the phsics file..

-----

So I've got a simulator working pretty well.  I've got ideas for making
the display better using shadows and allowing to roate the display.
And by skipping draw ccycles for the times where it's doing high speed
caculating, itmight help improve the performance and the look. So I
could play with that.

And the idea of recoding the siuatlin with fixed smaples, then playing
it bck as a movie instead of plaing while simlulating might be a good
feature to allow long runs to be visulized in short time to see what is
really happening!

But the bigger issue, is that it doesn't seem to be working. That is
this model is not self forming into atoms.

A few things seem to be true.  My suspection that orbiting ep pairs
would tend to syncrhronize in velocity and energy seem to be true.
The synchronizing is not absolute -- there can be a 40/60 energy split
in the two orbits so the frequences are a bit off.  And I've not done any
careful test of largeer systems to see how the entire set act. Including
understanding how this requires each to be on different planes. But on
what I'm seeing now, I would expet a fairly even distirbution of spin
orriention thoughtout the set with all of them in the same ballpark
creating a lot of vibrational background noise in the entire system for
all spin angels.  But maybe it would tend to cluster in a few different
directions???  Lots of fmore care formal testing could be done down
down path.

And two p with an e can have the e doing figure 8 like patterns jupming
back and forth, and with the e in the middle more than on the outside,
the system trys to shrink todatgher -- causing the orbiting e to "glue"
the system together!  BUT, it ends to pull togeher get too close, then
suddenly swtich a different orbit path that is no longer able to hole
them dotether, whcih acts like a spring relalse, that makes them fly
apart! They, then get too far apart for the action of the electon to
pull them back together!

So there is some Some tendency for this to explain how the atomic nuclear
could be held together, overall, it doesn't work.

Maybe a more complex nuclesue with lots of protons and half the number
of electons will have wild chaotic behavior that glues it all together.
But the current modele shoudl form a hydrogen atom on it's own, and
it doesn't.

Two e, and two p, all close together should in theory self form into a
hydrogen atom with two p and one e near the center, and the other e in
a high outer orbit. I'm not seeing any tendency for this to happen.

They form into two separate syncronized ep orbital pairs and end up
drifting apart!

Something that holds to the atom together is missing!

----

[2:57 PM]

Don showed up.  Went over the use of the poower washer and chated
with him.  John the mailman showed up and Don chatted with him
We got the story about the kid he called the police on a few weeks
ago.  Argjun.  John said he went "running" into the woods.  

Ok, so the problem with this simulation is the atoms don't hold
together.  And the loose sort of attaraction that seems to exist
here isn't going to explain hos amazingly stable atoms seem to
be.

AKA, that's why we have the strong force.  So so far, I can confirm
there is a tendency for electons to glue together protrons, but nothing
as strong and as stable as needed to explain atoms.

So, more tsting of this simulation in large configurations and for
longer time periods would be possible. But I think we can ignore all
that and just assume that as it is, it's not producing the right emergent
behaviors.

So, one idea -- add gravity as it's defined on top of the electostatic
force and see how the simulation behaivor chagnes.

My basic understanding hoswever is that gravity is such a weak force
compared to electomagnatism that it likely will have no real effet on the
simlaution -- might be below the resultion of the current system totally.
I guess I should actually find the formaula and calcuate the real numbers.

Second idea, add the strong force!  But how? I don't think they have any
formal defintion of how it works -- just the informal need for an extra
force to explain how atoms hold together!  I could do more reerach into
the strong force and see if I can find any formal definiton. It would be
good to know what if anything is known about it so that even if I recreate
it with other emergent behavior I know if it matches expectations!

Thrid idea -- relativity.  Make the particles move according to
relativity. They are close to the speed of light in these simulations
already -- e7 type of velocity range where 3e8 is the speed of light.
So relativistic effects will have some effects here.  But I need to better
understand reality in the first place. I never have understood what the
basic evidence Enstine was working with to justify the theory.  And I
still think there is real potential for relativity at the large scale to
be emergent, not fundamental.  But this is a path to attack. I don't even
know how to code it however.  Do I make the mass depand on the velociety
and adjust behavior according to how mass has changed?  What about this
idea of time and space warping?  Does that have to be coded to make it
work correctly?  This is all a research path to chase down.

3.1 idea -- Does the system act the same from all obseration
perspedtives? Form all frames of reference by which we measure velocity
and location?  Something I've read made me think relativity falls out from
the changes that happen if you make the system the same from any monumtum
frame of reference.  Or maybe, if we change are frame of refence to be
one of the particles, is the system behavior the same no matter which
particle we use as the frame of reference?  This is just more of me tryig
to grasp relativitys and related concepts.  If relatiity is explained by
NOT needing or having a frame of refence, that would be cool beuase there
is no idincation the unviese would have a bacground frame of reference.

Forth idea -- what if electomagnatic force was not the simple 1/x^2
but somethign more complex that produced more or less force when the
particles got closer together? Weather though a odd shaped force field
or though effects like relativity, this could create a dynamic lock-in
point in the system.

There is an effect I've seen at work, when two electons are fighting
over the orbit of a proton, that one seems to like to "win" and grap a
tight orbit, throwing the other out into space. Which can be the issue
of some electrons having all the excess energy sucked out and turning
into a tight orbit of a neurton, while others take the excess energty
and turn into lose orbits.  Maybe something that creates a cap on how
close of an orbit can form?  The speed of light limits could explain
this for exmaple because the tigther the orbit, the faster the electron.
If higher velocityh crated high mass that creaed more nergfor the orbit,
there could be a balance point where the speed and energy blanced into
a fixed speed orbit -- defining the neuron orbit velocity and energy --
explaining the fixed amount of extran enry relaced in beta decay?

That seems like a good idea to hang around.  The idea that ep pairs have
a fixed stable point where they can't give up any more energy and go into
a tigther orbit.  And the escape velocity to get out of that config is
the extra energy that apears to be "given off" on Beta decay.

Oh, and right, the extra mass of the neturon, and the extra extra energy
given off in beta decay, is said to match the e=mc^2 formula.

If relativity is emergent, then how can this extra speed ever end up
looking like extra mass?

If neutron orbit speed had an inherent low energy stable point, then
we wouldn't need the univese to snychronise all the neurons to explain
how they might be attracted to each other.  Or, more improtant, their
ability to synchronise would be far stronger and easier if their orbital
energy was automtixcaly seeking the same stable point.

Then, all the neutrons could be better attracing each other to create
gravity?

Another reserach direction -- if neuron orbits create gravity, we should
be able to simulate to syncronized ep pairs and measure their attraction
and calibrate it for the gravity -- allowing us to calculat the average
orbital diamters needed to match gravity!

But, since netrons don't all align with each other, it would have to
only be a fraction of the total that attracted each other! So that
would have to be factored in a well!

But we could at least get a number -- how far apart does the e and p
have to be, to equal the weak force of gravity?  And see if we are in
a ball park that could match the size of a netron?

Shit, I feel like that is such a simple thing to calcuate that I have
to actualy sit down and do it.  At tleast the saimple first pass of an
e p together, and an e or p further way.

Ok, coded it, and it didn't work exactly beuase the gravity force was
more than e-15 below the electrostaic force. So trying to subtract the
two em forces produced loss of all precision.  Gee, I have to do the
math now.

ke = 8.99 e9
G = 6.67E-11

em force is:

   ke / d^2

gravity force is:

   G m1*m2/d^2

mp = 1.67e-27
me = 9.11e-31

So, when does gravity force equal em force, for a p by itself, and an
ep pair far away.  How close do the ep pair have to be to equal
the expected same force as gravity is the question.

G mp*mp/d2 = ke / d^2 - ke / (d-x)^2

D is the distance betwen the two protons.  the electon is x distance from
the electron and between the two.

I'm ignoring the mass of the ectron in this formual above and just using
the mass of the two protons for the gravity force.

So I need to solve the above for x!

m is mp .. mass of proton
d is random distance constant that should fall out.

gmm/dd = k/dd - k/(d-x)(d-x)
k/dd - gmm/dd = k/(d-x)(d-x)
(d-x)(d-x)(k/dd - gmm/dd) = k
(d-x)^2 = k/(k/dd - gmm/dd)
(d-x)^2 = k * dd/(k-gmm)
d-x = sqrt(k * dd/(k-gmm))
d-x = sqrt(k)* sqrt(dd) * sqrt(1/(k-gmm))
d-x = sqrt(k) * d * sqrt(1/(k-gmm))
d-x = d * sqrt(k/(k-gmm))
x-d = -d * sqrt(k/(k-gmm))
x = -d * sqrt(k/(k-gmm)) + d
x = d * (1-sqrt(k/(k-gmm)))

Ok, so d didn't drop out as I expected.  Or I got the math wrong

Ah, right, as I change x, the em from the electron to distant proton
will change.  d can't drop out.  Shit. Try again.

----

[6:22 PM]

Fell aleep in my chair trying to think about this. Got up too early
today and not enough sleep. :)

No, wait, shit.  The change is most certaonly a function of the distance.
My thinking on this has been all wrong all along.

If the two particles are at the same distance so x = 0 in the above
equaltion, then the force is distance becuase the two charges perfectly
cancel out.  But when you move one a small distance closer, the change
in force (what we are trying to calculate) will be very different
depending on distance.

Ah, so for very small x, we are talking just x*df!  The deritive of
force with respect to distance.

f = k/d^2 so the derivative is -2k/d^3 right?  yes.  Times x

-2xk/d^3

Setting equal to gravity:

gmm/dd = 2xk/d^3

solving for x:

dgmm/2k = x

Which looks like a very different answer than the first way, but yet the
d is still in their as a basic factor either way.  Meaning the way the
force changes is not like gravity at all it's not 1/d^2.

If x was always proportional to d, instead of a constant, then it would
be a 1/d^2 answer.  But there is no fixed x that makes it work.

Ok, unless I've really messed up the math, mu entire concept that gravity
could be an emergent propety of the attraction of orbiting nutrons,
goes right out the window! Cool.

Could it be an emergent property for other reasons????

Is there some way to adjust how the field works like relativity that
would make it fall out this way correctly???

I still can't help but have a gut instant that gravity is some type of
emergent property of electo magnatism, but the math is suddenly make it
look much harder to explain! The gut comes from the fact that it's
a 1/x^2 field just like em, and far far weaker as if it somehow "leaks"
out of the far stronger em fields.

Ah, ok, so if x needs to be relative to make it work, what if the orbit
of the proton/elecfton did adjust itself as needed in gravity to create
the 1/x^2 effect correctly?????  Could something like that posisble?

The + and 1 effect of electostatic fields is not like gravity, so the
synchronised orbits was always required as a way to turn polorized
attraction into universal attraction.

================================================================================

2016-09-18 12:20 PM Sunday

Yesterday

1) no real work, lots of writing trying to get caught up

Today

More writing.  Had trouble sleeping last night.  Woke up at 2 am ish
after a few hours of sleep  from a bad dreem.  Something about watching
a war or attack and getting shot the head.  It felt oddly real weling my
head jump.  Had to wondr if it was some sort of brain-fart back filled
with a fake storty?

Anyhow, I started thinking about stuff and got into one of my more manic
phases of excietment and couldn't sleep.  Don't even remember what I was
thinking about.  AI and robotis I guess.  Exciement from day dreaming
over bulding them and showing them to the world.  I think.

But took Niqule to sleep but it was areadly like 5am at tha tpoint so I
sleept unil 11 and have been slow to get going due to that niquire haze
that lasts for hours.

Just having my first cup of coffee now.  Taking the 5 vitiman pills i've
been taking.  Just had a bananna as well.

Physics

Thinking about the fact that the electon and protron close together
doesn't create a 1/x^2 field...  That it's actually something different
due to the fact that the d term didn't drop out of the math.  I wonder
if it could be 1/x^2 accurate to N digits?

I don't think it is.  But that's math I should consider checking.  If the
two charges were like +1 and -0.95 then the overlaping field would be a
close approximation to a -.05 strength 1/x^2 field. But because electons
and protrons have the exact same charge, and only the difference in
distance create the resulting difference in force it's a different effect.

Maybe this is also why the three particle test is not tending to glue
together as much as I expected -- the force is really not a 1/x^2
like effect?

If I make up a new force curve for electons and protons, then I might
find it works, but I would be working in the dark at that point making up
a curve from whole cloth instead of data.  I need a data justifiation for
an approach to making the atoms stick together.  Reshaping a curve has too
many degrees of freedom if we don't have some data to reduce that freedom.

So gravity isn't as easy to answer with neutrons attaracing each other.

And I don't have an answer to why atoms so strongl stick together.

If I can find an answer to explain how protons get glugged together with
nutrons, then the fact that an electon cloud would form is easy to grasp.
And if atoms with glued together protons were protected by an electon
cloud, it seems easy enoughn to grasp that atoms would stick together
by shared electons.

But wait, is not the question of how an electon cloud can glue atoms
totgether the exact same problem as electons (creating nutrons) can glue
the nucleas together?  And with the scale invarance I'm seeing in the
system, might there be a lot more in common at both levels?

The problem is that the nucleus is net postive charge but yet sticks
toether somehow.  And atoms that share an electon will also have a net
postive charge -- but far smaller with only net of +1 for the whole
system.

Ah, but wait.  This field created by the orbiting electons in nutrons
might still be the answer to whta the strong force is even if it's not
the answer to what gravity is.  I was assuming the offest e and p would
create a weak 1/x^2 field but no undersand the field is not that simple.
So maybe this field is very strong when clsoe together and very weak
when futhre apart and this is effect is what holds the nucles together?
And creats a bias so we have half the electons in the tighly bound
nucleas and half in the outer orbits?

Ok, so that theory still leaves open the option for being a path to
an answer.  But I'm not seeing that work in my current simluation.
The protons are't getting glued together. There is attractive force
at times but not stable enough to keep things glued together.

I could try to argue that the electons in the outer shells help hold
hold the nucles together.  But I don't think that could be true.
I think the outer electons are ready to fly off at a moumebnts
notice and it's the strength of the gluged together nucleus that
is attacting and holding the electons in orbits.  So the answer to this
puzzle if there is one, is really in simulating the nucleus I think.
In explaining what the strong force is that glues together the
nucleus is.

A thought -- fake it,  Force protons to be glued together with a fake
force in the simulation, and then see how electons act?

----

Looking for data on strong force let to Nuclear phsics article (and I
found the simple wikipedia for the first time -- didn't know it existed).
And led to this:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuclear_physics

Which is opening my eye to the history of studing the nucleus.  And that
an older model was my model -- that the nitrogen-14 had 14 protons and
7 electons in the nucleus.  And 7 in the outer cloud. But that model
failed to explain the "spin" problem.  That electons and protons have
a spin of 1/2 that cancel each other out.  So the nuclus of the n14
atom should have a spin of 1/2 but that it actually has a spin of 1.
The invention of the nutron solves this problem.

Ok, so what the fuck is spin?  At least I'm learning more...

The article tells a lot about the history that is eye opening.

I didn't even really understand that the term "nuclear physics" meant
the study of the nucleus! So much to catch up on.

But, I also understand that the discoer of the nucleus came from the
ration tests that showed how particles scattered and the fact that most
when straight though but a few bounced a large angles (when they hit or
came close to the nucelus) is what gave evidence that thee was a small
dense positively charged nucleus.

And all this work is what gave rise to the world of sub-atomic
particles like gluons and hadrons and quarks and all those things I
don't understand yet.

And there are people proposing and working on new models of the nuecleus.

Nuclear fusion is the fusing together of two smaller atoms.  Since
the nucleus is postivly charged, they don't easilly come together. But
if there is enough nergy to force them together, they can fuse,
but release lots of extra energy in the process -- which is the source
of energy in the sun.

But why does this cause the release of enrgy? Where is the energy comming
from? Is it the energy that is needed to push them together the energy?
That when they bind, the energy to foce them goether then comes back
out in a different form like electomagnetic radiation?

The fact that beta decay produces an electon and protron is still to
me a strong indicator that the system is not simpler. I still (with
my limited knowledge of the experiments) feel like all this sub-atomic
particle crap is really just adding degrees of freedom to explain the data
rather than creating a true justification of the sub-atomic particles
existing as "real" particles. But that's easy to say when I'm ignorant
of the experments and data as I am.

So, spin is where it started. WTF is spin?  Let me dig.. (this has been
bugging me for a long time)

--

Ok, it's angular monumtum. It really is a type of spin.  Not just a name.

Ok, cool.  Spin is a real type of angular monumtum, but it's aparently
strongly quantized at the quantum level. So it's fixed.  Somehow.
But how did experments actualy show this??..  Don't know yet.

But spin is seem as a fundamental property like charge or mass. And
seems to be quantized, but has "direction" (up or down?)  which is like
clockwise or counterlockwise I guess?

In reading the paper about all the funny names they came up with, I
still I'm left feeling like this is all just crazy talk used to explain
quantum effects -- like phtons can be seen as "crazy" talk to explain
the quanlitized transfer of energy from one atom to another.

Ok there is much confusion in reading all the stuff about spin.  But what
I'm left with, other than a need to learn more, is the feeling that all
this complexity is a direct anology to classical orbial angular monumtum,
but with quantun effects where particles can only be in fixed quantized
configurations.

So all this math and logic and ideas falls out from the quantization of
angular monumtum.  Which to me, again, raises the flag of possiblity
that this is all an illusion created by a simpler answer to why the
system is quantized -- as I'm trying to do with photons.

All these use of sub atomic paricles seems to me, to just be giving
names to the quantized effects, vs actualy finding real particles.

But electons have spin an in my model, there is nothing there to
allow it to spim.  Ah, but wait.

What if neutrons have real spin due to them being an electon and protron
in a very tight orbit.  And this then creates a vibrating force field
that makes all electons and protons vibarte as they move?  Could the
vibration of the paricle due to the background vibrational energy of
all the neurons, be the spin?

For it all to be strong quantilized, I think we are talking about all the
nutrons being forced to lock into a fixed frequency and all synchronized
with each other.  And I'm not feeling that the tendency to lock into
a fixed frequency can be explained by simple density or the like --
some other greater force is needed to exlain why it locks into a fixed
frequence I think -- a balance point beteween two forces or something
like the strong force and electomagnetic force.

Or maybe again, just simple orbital mechans, but yet something
more complex than the classical mechans I've been exploring -- like
relativistic effects on speed capping speed at the speed of light --
so electons and protons can't get into orbits tigther than the speed of
light for the electons?

In all this, I still don't understand magnatism.  I don't understand how
roating electons create a magnetic field.  It's said everywhere that
magnatism is "just rotating electrostic forces" (if I understand what
they are saying corrctly0 but I don't understand how rotating electostic
forces attract each other in the way described by magnatism.

How is it that electons in rotaing orbits attract each other?

Oh, but here is where spin all comes from:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stern%E2%80%93Gerlach_experiment

Soooo  passing particles through a magnetic field delects them up and
down dpending on the orrination of their magnagtic dipole!  But instad
of random spread deflection explained by random orrientations they are
quantized into up and down deflections (must be where up and down spin
comes from).

And this effect works the same as polorized light -- turning the magents
to different angles changes the answer in the same odd and intersrting
way that light works -- it's not "filtering" the photons by a property.

So, now we have come full circile. I don't (really) understand magnatism,
so I can't say much about how this works or what it tells us!  But as
with light, I feel that what's wrong is thinking the light is a particle
that carries state -- the state is in the resonators of the glasses.
And the resonators of the source, then partially activate the resators
of the filter, which then re-transmit energy at a different angle.

So if the silver atoms or particles have quntized spin, why not is
it in the complex orbital mechans of the atom?  Or orbital mechans of
the nucleus?

There is a comment that says you can't do the experment with an indivudal
electons.  Due to the charge overwhelming the rsult -- so it's done in
an electric field to offset the charge or something?

What if all the electons were in fact vibrating in sync with the neutrons
that all acted as resonators that created a universal background vibration
for all particles?  Could the universal vibrations all hovering at the
same average frequency be the true source of spin and all the quantized
effects?

Seems possible.

But again, now since I know a little more about spin, I have to try and
find an answer to what magnatism actually is!

----

Ok, but the Xchrodinger equations are yet another mystery to me and it's
a fundamental foundation of quantum mechans.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schr%C3%B6dinger_equation

But also, this is an interesting comment:

"The Schrdinger equation is not the only way to make predictions in
quantum mechanicsother formulations can be used, such as Werner
Heisenberg's matrix mechanics, and Richard Feynman's path integral
formulation."

The path intergral I was sort of undrestanding when I read his small
book on that, and it seemed to be nothing more than tracing the path of
kenetic energy flow in systems thorugh many different paths.

"Schrdinger, though, always opposed a statistical or probabilistic
approach, with its associated discontinuitiesmuch like Einstein,
who believed that quantum mechanics was a statistical approximation
to an underlying deterministic theoryand never reconciled with the
Copenhagen interpretation.[22]"

Ok, so this is exactly the same thing I'm hunting for. The same intuition.

The Schrodinger equations seem to be (as I'm trying to grasp them)
a mamthematical expression of probablity waves -- the probablity of
_MEASURING_ something like a particle, or photon, and how that probablity
tranforms acrss time in a wave function.

But is it the most fundamental way we are limited in describing rality
or is there a lower more fundamental determinstic theory that would
yield this higher level abstraction of particles(measurements) being
(measurment probability) waves.

---

Ok, so I have an very crude into the Schrodeinger equations now.
I scanned the wikie page on them.  Most I didn't really understand. But
it describes the sytate of particle sand systems as a wave functions
based on conservation of kenetic and potential energy.

And I think there is room here to understand that this all falls out
from measurment proiblems -- it's all describing what we can expect to
measure -- not what is actualy there.  Due to us not having any tool to
measure at a higher level of accuracy.

---

So, now I need to move on to trying to understand magnetism better.

How does magnetism fall out from eletrostic force???

Ok, it's defined as a phenonmenon the produced by the moiton, of electic
charge! Which is I've sort of always understood and accdpted as a
fundamemal truth, but clueless to explain what it really MEANS.

I'm hoping to find a simple answer here....

Ah, Maxwells equations link eltricity and magnatism, and by requiring
that these equations hold true in all inertial rference frames Einstein
creates speical relativity.

AH ah ah.  magnatism arises from TWO sources -- electic current, and
SPIN of elementary particles!  So, if we can show spin is really
moving (or vibraing) charged particles, we make it one souce!

OH FUCKING HELL..  Great stuff...

https://www.quora.com/How-does-electricity-work-in-combination-with-magnetism-to-create-electromagnetism-As-in-how-does-electromagnetism-work

Speical relativity EXPLAINS magnatism as electrostic forcing being
bent by relativity!

So the movement of electons causes relativistic shortening which creates
atraction due to it acting as if it's compressed and holding a higher
charge -- or soemthing fucking odd like this.

Or, the inversely, the ideas of spcial relativity falls out of the
electromagntism.

Fuck, now I get it.  My model won't work without the needed adjustemetns
to explain speical realitlvitye!  My model won't have MAGNATISM if
I only classically model elctrostcic forlce!  When charged particles
are in motion, their FORCE is different -- and I'm not making the force
change based on motion!

Ok, so no clue how to model this, but this is exciting.  If i model it
correctly, the orbital dynamics are all going to change!

So now I'm getting a better grasp of how relativity falls out of maxwells
equestions. They were showing how electic current and magnatic attraction
were related.

So that's what I have to dig into.  I need to figure ouw hot to code
magatism into my model by changing force attractions with velocity.

Which means coding relativity into my model. How fun.

Ok, national cheesburger day.  Talk Pig into going to fosters for a cheesburger fix.

[5:04 PM]

----

[7:13 PM]

Back from burger trip and a bit of pokemon.  Buddy feature recently added.
need like 8 more candy for squrital upgrade to get that missing guy.

But physics.  Looking at minumte physics.  Darn,m just so fucking cool.

So without modeling reltivity effects my system won't show mangnatism!
I had never been shown that before!

But, I have no clue how to add relativity effects to my model?  Bend space
(xyx), Bend time? Bend force?  Bend mass?  WTF?

Does relativty assume some sort of background frame of reference all
others is tied to?

I could code mass as a function of speed, making speed change in different
ways than it does no due to shifting mass.   I doubt it's that simple.

I can't code variable time -- the whole system has to operate in the
same time frame.  But a moving system ending up "running" slower seems
possible.

If force was different due to relative velocties, that could be coded.
So the froce between two particles is relative ot the relative motion?

In fact I wonder if that mibght be the only thing needed to be coded?
That would make it look like variable mass I think maybe?

================================================================================

2016-09-19 12:48 PM Monday

Yesterday

1) Learned highly important point!  My model doesn't implement magnatism!
Even though electostaic force and magnatism are said to be one and the
same things, my model that only implements electostic force, fails to get
magnatism correct!  I actulaly sort of knew that magnatism was more complex
than electostaic force but had sort of failed to fully grasp that and
was assuming that if you implment only electostaic force in the simulation
it would show magnetic effects as an emergent property.  Wrong.  Because
when charged particles MOVE the laws of magnatism start to control their
motion not just the laws of electostaic force. So MOVING charged points
act differently!

2) Big point I learned -- Relativity falls out of Maxwells equations
that document the realtionship between electrostatic fields and magnetic
field when you assume that the equations must work the same no matter what
reference frame you measure from!

Today

Been studying electomagnatism to try and gain a deeper and more
fundamental understanding of it all.  I thought I actually sort of
understood this from work with electoncis, but I see at this fundamental
level, I have lot to still learn.

Added -m to my ciall script so I don't have type the "checkpoint" message.

Reading about maxwells equations.  I don't understand them.  Trying to
better understand all sors of stuff -- like volts, and how they relate
to charge.  If voltes is presure I would expect it to be newtons, but
it's not. It's newton-m/charge.  confusing.  Or potentital-energy/charge.

I'm not getting a conceptual understanding of this yet.

Also, in trying to understand magnatism, it's said that elementrary
particles have innate magnatism (spin) which is a type of angular
monentum.  Or at least is measured as if it were.  And it's quantized.

But orbiting electons create magnatism the same way.  And the total
magnetic effect of an atom is the combined effects of orbits and particle
magnatism.

But, in my appraoch here, I'm expoorting the idea that neutrons are in
fact orbiting ep pairs which would then create their own spin due to
this and when synchronised with other pairs, create a vibarting field
effect that could spread though all of sapce.  Making individual electons
vibrate at this same rate a well -- and I'm wondering if this vibration
of individual elections is the real orginin of the notion of spin.

Which would suggest e and p don't innately have magnatism, but rather
their complex vibrating orbital paths create it.

So, then we have the question, WHAT IS MAGNATISM?

We are sugesting that the moving path of one electons, will cause a
change in the path of another.

But when we look at the eqations, so far I'm seeing macro level effects
being described (electical experments of currents and wires and magnaetic
fields), not mirco effects.

For example, the concept of the Amp has no meaning for a single electon
moving through space!  Because Amps is a count of electons moving past
a point but one electon in motion can't have an amp measure.  So, wtf.

How is this translated to partical motion?

More questions.  The simple film in the link from yesterday gave some
intuitive understanding of magnatism as one charged particle in motion
next to a wire with current -- saying the relativistic shorting of the
wires acted as if the postive ions that were staic in the wire but acted
as if moving relative to the charged particle, would shink in length,
making them act as a strong postive charmnge, but the moving elecotns,
moving along with the external charge did not shirnk, making the system
act as if it were more positively charged and attract the extrnal
moving charge.

So what does this mean for my simulation?  If I look at two particles
and calculate the force, do I have to look at their reltiave speeds, and
adjust the effective charge, or effective force, based on relative speed?
So the higher the relative speed, the less force it has?

Can this be transltaed to looking at dr?  Meaning the derivitat3e of the
distance between the two particles?  So if the distance is not changing,
my current force is correctd, but if it's changing, the force will be
higher or lower?

Could the change in distance by adjustd by lorentz contraction to make
the effect happpen?

----

Reading about space time and lorentz contraction.  These things are
constantly descirbed at "what it looks like to an abserver".  WTF does
that even mean? How do we analize the motion of atomic particles under
the idea of "an abserver"?

It feels to me that much of this might have fallen out due to measurmeent
errors -- which is a key driving issue of my work here.

The limits of what we can MEASZURE can be understood dfiferently from
what might actually be happening.

So if two electons are moving together though space in the same direction
relative to another electon elswhere, what is the force those two apply
to the third?  Do we look at them as if they shirnk by lorentz contraction
and get closer together, and then use this new shorter length to calcuate
the effectdive distance and force?

That's what the video implied.  But that wouild imply that a pritcle
moving perfectly perpendicular to another, would have no contraction
effect.  Only those further way would "contract".

In fact doesn't this then end up implying that if a particle was approach
another one straight on, the distance between them would be contracted?
So it would have a stronger force?

Well, lets think.  If we have electons in a row all moving together
creating a current they are said to create a magnetic field that would
then attract another electon in near by wire IF it were moving, but NOT if
it were standing still!  So we hve relative motion between the electons,
and yet no attraction!  But in the wire, there is also logical movent
of holes.  Electons get ripped out of the obrit of one atom, creating
a +ion or hole, and that then sucks an electon from a nerebuy atoms --
creating the cascading current flow.

So we have the ions at play here as well as the electons.  The ions are
standing still, but the electgons are moving.

This relativty crap just doesn't add up when looking at it from this
perspective.

Current flow in two partallel wires, when the current is flowing
inthe same dirction (as happens in a coil) PULLS THE WIRES TOGETHER.
And inversely pushs them apart if flowing in opposit directions.

Why does that happen?  What would I need to re-code in my model to make
that effect happen?  Is it the electrons pulling towards each other or
the ions or what?

Ah, what if relative motvation of a pe pair made it more attractive and
relative motion of ee pair made is more repulsive?  Or oddly reverse?

And there is all this talk of spacetime where we must thinking of events
in 4 space.  But why?  Is it needed to define events affecting each other
across time?  So the past location of a particle is what is determining
the current force on another particle?

That would be consitent with the idea that that force was limited to the
speed of light.  That to see what force particle 1 had on particle 2,
we have to rewind the clock to see where particle 1 was at a point back
in time?  So when a particle is not moving then when we rewind the clock,
it's at the same distance.  But if it's moving, when we rewind the clock,
it's a different loction and that different location is where we have
to calcuate force with?  Maybe that's what's at work here.

Another comment talked about very old theiroes talking about the
electosatic field being distroted by the motion of the charge.

----

Side note -- Pig bitching at me about how much coffee I'm drinking!
I just got my thrid Kcup of coffee. [2:01 PM].  She's trying to agure I'm
wasing "money" by having too many Kcups and I should just be making pots
of coffee if I drink this much.  For 20years, I've had a daily starbuck
habit where I spend $5+ per venti lattie.  And she had bitched about this
for 20 fucking years.  Now, for the first time in 20 years I was doing
as much as 3 starbucks run a day at one point long ago. But have cut
it back to one a day for a very long time now.  Now, due to the fatty
liver problem, I deciced to cut back to 3 a week, but once I ended my
daily trip, I find I'm not going ther much at all maybe more like once
a week.  So now I'm doing Kcups at home.  That cost like 60 cents each.
Three Kcups is $2.  Vs $5 I was spending on Starucks.  And she is not
bitcing becuse I'm doing $2 a day in Kcups. Spending MY OWN FUCKING
MONEY -- which she thinks is hers.

I should docuemnt all the crap I end up taking from her.

----

Back to physics.

But the stuff I'm reading eally indiates that not until Einstein did all
these ideas convert to using spacetime to make it all work and to explain
all the effects -- that spacetime is distroted by stuff, like gravity.

But, WTF?

Ok, so I think that might be it.  To understand the force on a paritcle
you have to figure out where it was back in time, to account for the
force effect being transmitted at the speed of light to the "receiving"
particle.  So in effect, how a particles motiion is changing at time t is
function of the location of all thother particles back in time relative
to how far away they are from us?

And likewise, if p1 effects p2, we have to look back in time to see
where p1 was short time ago, to see it's effect on p2. But likewkse
we have to back up p2, to see how it's now effecting p1.  And maybe,
the way to best describe all this in math, is by making spacetime a 4
point coordinate system?  That makes sense.  Oh, but no, does it?

Ok, and again, all that view makes spooky action at a distance impossible.

But if we assume the electostatic field has no time delay, then we can
conceive of how quantum action like that works.

So, to keep that, we are left still having to explain magnatism some
other way?

Which is what it seems everyone was stuggling with 100 years ago and
all setteled on Einstiens solution.

Which, I don't really undrestand beuase honsetnly, I don't really
understand magnatism.  And could magnatism be a false emergent propertyu
a not a low level fundamental one?

I understand some of the basic taught in EE work at the macro level.
But I don't grasp how that translates down to this simualtion of paticle
model level.

Let me dig more into basic magnatism to get a better grasp of how the
system SHOULD work.


----

http://physics.stackexchange.com/questions/87082/how-is-relativistic-n-body-simulation-possible-without-knowing-the-entire-histor

"How is relativistic N-body simulation possible without knowing the
entire histories of each particle?"

Well, this seems to be the very thing I'm looking for.  Found it
yesterday, but revisited it today.  Sounds like this guy is trying to
do the same thing I am -- N-Body simulation of atomic particles.

The implication of the question and answer seems to be that you need to
use retarted positions for EM forces.  But that with gravity, it will
distort space time.  But for this level of modeling, we ignore gravity
and just code retarted positions.

But if EM field effects propigate at the speed of light, making it
required we do retarted position calcuations, then we have no answer
for QM spooky action.

So, if there's a cool answer to be found hidden in there, I think we
need to find a way to make magnatism manifest itself without time and
space distortion. Or without using retarted position to calcute foce.

What if we use speed and dv to bias force but not actually retard the
position?  That would act a bit like retarted position effects but might
produce important qnd cool orbital dynamics that explains the rest?

My attack is still the idea that there are complex orbital effects are
creating emeregnt propety that is being documented in all these qm and
reltavistic equations but yet can be explained with sipler low level
fundamental effects.

So, let me go back to magnatism.  How does it actually work at the
macro level?

----

Next Pig bitch.  I was walking circles in the kitchen thining.  It's
helpful to walk and think at the same time sometimes.  She then
comes in and starts to bitch about how she "hates" when I walk
around with "nothing to do".  I tell her I'm thinking.  But she
then says "I have to do do this work -- get out --- I don't want
you here when I do this work".

This is the shit I've put up with for 20 years.  No repect at all
for what I want or what is important for me.  If she wants something
my needs and desires are irrlivant.

----

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lorentz_transformation

Ah, wonderful.  Finally a simple answer to what an inertial frame of
reference is -- two frames moving at constant velicity!  When moving
at non constant velociety, it's a non-intera frames and the Lorentz
Transforms don't apply!

And, a clear(er) answer to what is meant by "observer".  It means any
measurment made from that frame.  No human required.  But it does beg
the question of what a measurment is!

Ah, but the speed of light is the same in all frames!  Freeky!

So I can go twice as fast in my frame, but light is still moving as fast!
So that's why reltiave time/distance distort -- to allow for such constant
speed of light!

Ok, maybe the unviese really just is weird like that.  But the very
notion of a "measurement" opens the door to explain all this as measurment
effects and not underlying fundamental properties!

Which leaves open the door to the idea that all this complexity is needed
to explain what can be MEASURED about distant events in space time,
but all the complexity could still emerge from simpler fundamental
properties that don't include such distorations.  GOing back to my
idea that the speed light is an effect rated to how fast kenetic energy
can be transfered separate from how fast potential energy and electic
fields move!

So, is there some way to use my newtonian view of particles and change
the calcuatoin of force, to create magnatism, without complex time and
space distorations, but which cuase the emergence of complex time and
space distortion in the measurments!  That's stil what I'm digging for.

So, MichelsonMorley experiment 1887 -- speed of light is the same in
all directions measured -- so the rotatoin of the earth, or movement of
earth orbit, or moveent of solar system though some background reference
frame does not exist.

But the simple laws of particle intereation using charge create a
speed of transfer of eenrgy, just beuase of the F=ma delay and the
1/r^2 distance effect.  Aka, the futher way a particle is, the slower
it responds to chagnes in potential enrgy --- aka the slower kenetic
energy can be transfered.

I've not worked out the math, but it seems on the surface to be a sipmle
answer as to why the speed of light is a constant.

And again, if the source and receiver is in motion, it doesn't change
the speed becuase the f=ma delay effect is not a fucntion of underlying
speed, but only reltive speed of the sorce and receiving paticle.

I should look at the math.   But the issues of why this wouldn't work
could be simple.  The idea is that if we add kenetic energy to the
source particle, how long will it take for some fixed amount of kenetic
energy to be transfered to the destination?  The answer will of course
depend on how much is transfered.  x Joules would take less time than
2x Joules. For there ti be a "fixed" speed, the energy transfer threshold
level would have to be fixed.

But, if we put 10x as much energy into the source, would not 1x of
enrgy show in the distanation a lot faster making it look like the
speed was that much faster?

----

So though photons have a frequency and the amount of energy they carry
is based on frequencye, the speed of transfer is constant.

How could that fit into my odd ideas of the speed of transfer of
kenetic energy?  Different speed ossolators could define the frequency?

But why would the apparent speed of transfer, be constant?

Maybe, if an ossolator transmitts energy at a given frquencye, the
only thing that can receive it, is an ossolator of matching
frequencey???  It won't buildup energy and throw off an electon
in the atom if it's not matched in frequency???

So them there would need to be some mathamticaly reason that matched
ossicilators always take the same time to transfer energy at a given
distance.

----

Ok, cool.  Just found the ladder paradox!

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ladder_paradox

This is what I've never understood about relativity?  If I'm moving wtih
the ladder it shrinks and fits in the barn.  But if I'm moving with the
barn the barn shrinks and the ladder doesn't fit in.  Or is the inverse?
Anyhow, one way it fits and the other way it doesn't how can it fit at
not fit at the same time?  The answer is that the time one end o fthe
ladder SEEMS to exit the barn vs the time the other end enters (fits
inside) are two events that are seen differently by the two observers!

So one thing happens, but the two observers see it differently!

Is this just nothing more than the idea of time delay of information flow?
That is the relative time that information to get observer A is different
than the relative time the information gets to B?  It seems that way.
Let me think a little deeper about whether that's all it is.

And what it makes it all so non clasical, is not the fact that there is
infromation flow that is delayed across time but the apparent speed of
the flow is the same in all timeframes!  So all must distort for that
to be true!

So to get this all back to classic (my wild dream) we must explain why
infomration flow is relative to the moving objects not to the refence
space (which sort of just works already anyhow with my ideas of speed
of kenetic energy transfer).  But now I need to look deeper and see if
this can really all be true.

That is, if informaion flow for reasons of how kenetic energy flows is
fixed by distance but not by relative speed, does everything else work
out weird like this in terms of what happens at one observation point
in space?  Even if the observation space is moving?

The fact that clocks slow down is wired however.  That doesn't make a
lot of sense in this other prespective. Does it?

I need to understand what the atomic clock experment really tested and
showed to make sure I'm not assuming something that didn't happen...

But if you take kenetic energy out of system, the entire system could
maybe shirnk in sice and speed up.  Making time seem to pass slower to
the abserver since the abserver is running faster?  But I think that's
100% backwards from what relativeity is saying.

[6:58 PM]

Just finished folding my laundry.  Shirts and socks.  Been doing that
for a few years now I guess (don't remember when it was that Pig decided
she wasn't going to do that for me anymore).

--- OK in the garage frame, the ladder is moving and becomes shorter.
Which is NOT consistent with the siplified idea of delayed infomation
flow I don't think.  So the head enters the garage, and I notice it.
A short time later the end enters the garage. In another frame, the head
as already left, but in my frame, I don't find out about until after I
find out the tail enters, so it looks to me like the tail entered befoe
the head exited -- it looks to fit.

But what If i'm at the exit side.  I see the head exit, but I don't find
out about the tail entring for long time later, so it doesn't fit. So
this doesn't work at all!  It only works if I'm standing at the entrance.
doplar compress heading to me, expansion when heading away. So doplar
effects don't explain relatiivty in this way.

Ok, but what if it's just the opposit?  That is there is no doplar
effect measured?  The osscilating source seems to mantain the same speed
of oscilation heading to me as away?  And anti-doplar effect?

That doesn't make sense.  If there is information transfer delay, it
has to create the doplar effect.  And red shift is argued to be just that.


================================================================================

2016-09-20 10:47 AM Tuesday

Yesterday

1) Just spent time reading lots related to magnatism and maxwells
equatoiins trying to better understand magnatism and relativity and how
it all applies to the atomic modleing I'm trying to do.

2) Found the ladder and twin paradox pages on wikipeda -- I always
saw this problem of relativity that I didn't understand and now I have
a better grasp of what I was failing to understand -- that the entire
concep tof "when" (and where) something happens is distroted in different
frames of reference -- time is not universal under the weird stuff that
happens in relativity. I still don't have a firm grasp of it all but
I have a far better undrestanding of what I didn't undertand before!

3) Learning about diverence so I can understand what maxwells equations
are telling us.  I now have a basic grasp that the first equations is
telling us the electic field at any point or (surface?) is the charge
inside the point (adjusted by e0 factor for unit correction or material
property maybe).  And the second equation is that magnetic fulx has no
begenning or end point so the net flow in and out of any area is always
zero.  The 3rd is the relationship between magnetic and electic fields
such that the change in the magnetic fux is always equal to the electic
field.  Well, something like that. Not actually that. But it relates
chagne in magnetic field to electic field.  And the forth I don't
understand.  Some relationship between current and change in electic
field producing a magnetic field.

Today

Still more jumping around from reference to reference trying to
understand magnatism and relativity.


================================================================================

2016-09-21 4:52 PM Wednesday

Yesterday

1) NO real work -- started to edit notes above then got side tracked.
Did spend time thinking.

Pig left for the day, and suddenly I found I had no motivation to work.
odd how motivation can shift so quickly for me.  I felt compeled to
go do something but yet not feeling free to actually go do antyhing.

So I went to pizza, and played pokemon.  Rolled over to level 29.
Almost attacked a gym at the freeman house enough to add myself. It
was like level 9.  Too like 10K of traning, which was going like 200
at a time. Slow.  Beuase even the weakest poke was like 1900 level
vs my strongest at 2400.  I could only kill the first 2 in the list of
10 even with my strongest. If I'm real lucky, it's still up, and I
can add myself later today.

Today

Got side tracked working on Monty Hall problem and facebook.  I've got
to do a blacksmithing demo tomorrow for the kids for Phil.  Phil has
done this group for a few years now but he's in England and flying back
tomorrow so he talked me into doing it. Don't really want to. But felt I
had to. But I'm procastanating instead of dealing.  I need to go to shop
and make sure it's clean and read for tomorrow but I've procrastincated
on facebook instead of doing that not it's late in the evening already.

Physics

Well, been studying magnatism but I'm still fucking lost.  I have still
not grasped enough to have a clue how to code magnatism into my atomic
model. Maxwell equations are sort of beyond me. Sort of.  I have to better
study the math of vector calculus to fully grasp it. And of ocurse,
I also don't fully grasp how all of relative falls out of magnatism
either -- but I can accept that it does and sort of grasp why.

But most of magnatism is descrinedint terms of fields.  Which doesn't tell
me how, for a given atomic particle like an electgon, how to calcuate
the force on it that is crfeated by magnatism vs just the electostic
force I calucate now.

Of course the entire idea of flux lines is an imaginar concept to
express the interaction of magnetic field and objects, like a compus,
or any magnet.  The bottom line, is that the path an electon will take,
though space is relative to what all the other particles are doing. But
in the electro static model, only the distance to the other particles
is impotant. But magnatism, shows that the their velociy, is important
as well. Maybe the accelercation they experence as well.

So I knjow the formula for mapping distance to force. But I'm lost when
it comes to how to use velocty and acceleration as well.

All the relativity and spacetime talk implies that the problem is (most be)
solved in 4-D space not 3-D. But I don't yet grasp the full comlexityh
of any of the math.

More imporant the math seems to be documenting macro level emergent
effects instead of micro level effects. It documents how coils of
wire create magnetic fields and  how magnet field create electial
field -- or are cross related to electic field.  I don't know.

The "length compression" idea implies that when I calculate the distance
to particles to caluave the total force, I need to use different locations
in space adjusted for compression in order to get the true "effictive"
length to get the true "effective" force.

But for complex motion, this seems to imply the need to not just make
a simple adjustment like that, but rather, I need to revere time and
figure out where particls were at different points in time.

This is all the idea that time and space is being distroted by moition so
for a single particle to know what it "sees" -- how the other paricles
act on it, it's must use a different version of the current "state"
of the universe which has all the particles that are in motion acting
as if they are are different location in space.  So for each particle
which I want to know the force so as to estimate where it will go next,
I need to do some hediously complex time reversal problem based on motion.

But is that sort of approach REALLY the ansewr?  The only answer?

If electomagnatism moved though space with a time dealy, then we would
of course have highl complex problem of backing up time based on how
far each particle was to find out what force "waves" were reaching a
particle at any instant.  There are videos on theinternet that seem
to be indicating complex calcuaus to rethard things to cope with that.
But I can't belive it really solves the B body problem. I thnk that math
might obnly be used by EEs to copew ith a singl esource redial transmitter
and how it interacts with things like waveguides and receiving antenas.

But, if there's something cool to be found here, there's the need to
expect intentanious interaction between particles, not time delayed
by the speed of light.  And that the time delay, is onl the result
of effects that take time to move though the medium of many paricls.
Partical A mvoes, is effects B, which effects C, which effects D, but
since these are all differental equation type effects, it all creates
4 chained delaed reaction. And it's the total complexity of that chaned
dealy reaction that I think maybe all this space time crap is documenting,
vs the true underlying effects created by intentanious interactions.

So if there is an inestenanious anserw, it needs to be some approach
that converts not just distance into foce, but velocity into force
as well.  Meaning a moving electon, creates a different force on the
particles aroudn it, than a stantionalry one.

And for this all to be relative, and fit the gernaly truth of relaitvity,
it needs to be relative velocities.  That is, we can look at particle
A as standing still, and B is moving, or we can flip and look at
it from the perspective of B standing still, and A moving, and the
results of what forces get applied, should be identical.

So, hoping to find something simple and cool, I should just assume there
IS a solution like that, and guess at what it has to be to make magnatism
show up in the model.

So, is the velocity direction vector of the second partical important? Or
only the current effective change in distance between the two maybe?

And if the direction is improtant, is the acceleration vector important?
Not just the velocity vector?

Maybe there's some basic rule here that the total foce on a particle from
all other particles in the universe, is what defines the force between
to particles?  Something oddly self recursive that can't be directly
calcuated? Where we have to itterate across all paritcles for a while
to answer the question of what the total foces are?  Just thinking......

But I'm lost becuase I don't really even have a clue what magnatism
should do.  THe problem, is that if we have two wires with current
flowing, they pull together, is that the wires are themsleves complex
systems of electons and ion atoms. Is it the moving elctrons alone that
pull it together, or is it interaction with the ions?

Two parallel streems of electons in free space seem to me like they would
never show a force pulling them together (aka even if you subtract out
the obvious force pusshing them apart). They woudl be moving in perfect
unisoh, which means they act as if there is no relative motvion between
them, which means they should act the same as if they were static.
So the relative motion of the electons relative to the +ions in the
wire, is where the maganetic effect it seems must acutally be happening.
But them we are talking abot simple ecotons, interaint with higly complex
atoms -- which opens the door that the interaction is anything but simple.

So what is the "simple" interaction between two electons or between
an electon and proton, we need to explain or create magnatism effects?

What the hell even is the magnatism effect?

I know that current in two parallel wires, flowing in the same direction,
cause he wires to pull together. That's a smiple example. But rquires
as talked about above, +ion atoms in the mix.

And magnets, bend electon streams, in a CRT.  So a magnet flying through
a megnetic field, bends it's path.

And the magnetic field can be created by curent in a wire.

But what abouut two streams of electons, at different angles, and truning
on and off. How do they interact?  Does one electon in orbit around one
proton, create a magnetic field like current in a coil?  Would it cause
a near by stream of electons to bend?  how?  What direction?

Ok, let me look up how a magnetic field makes electon streams bend and
see if that starts to approch some basic infrmation that might be helpful.

----

Wonderful answer here:

https://www.quora.com/In-a-cathode-ray-tube-the-rays-get-deflected-when-a-magnet-is-brought-near-them-Is-that-because-a-moving-electron-creates-a-magnetic-field-around-it-or-because-a-magnetic-field-will-bend-the-path-of-any-charged-particle

"The forces produced on moving charged particles by a magnetic field
are always perpendicular to the direction of the field.  The forces are
also perpendicular to the direction of motion of the charged particle
in the local frame of reference."

NOTE the "local frame of reference" comment!!!!

"The magnetic force on a stream of moving charged particles is calculated
as the amount of electrical charge, q, times the velocity of the streams
of charges crossed into the magnetic field vector, F = qv X B."

"F=q m1 q m2 / 4r2"

----

Ok, cool so this gives me something a bit more concrete  at a level I
can understand to seek my teeth into!

A moving elctron, will create a magnetic field, and an electon moving
though a magnetic field will have it's path bent by the force creatd
by this cross product. So if we have to electons, and that's all, how
do they interact. Which is creating the field, and which is having it's
path bent and can we look at it from both frames of reference and always
get the same answer!

And, the force is a linear fucntion of the vfelcity of the chraged
particle.  The fast it moves, the more force, the faster it curves.

Does this mean by chance that the path is the same no matter how fast
it moves??? I'll have to look deeper into the math to see what that
implies.

Hum, if a magenet field runs N to S, like the field lines are drawn. And
the electon cuts across that, the cross product seem to say it would
bend right or left due to this. But the spin experment foced things
to move up and down in the field didn't it???  Not left and right?

Ok, but cross imples the force is always perpendicular to the veloicty
and perpendicular to the magenet field direction.

So, if we take a thrid "ground" frame of refenec,e and make two elecotns
zip in parallel motion, we can say they are both moving.  both creating
a magenetic field that circles them.  And both, will be crossing
perpendicular to the field the other one is creating.  But on different
sides of the field.  One will point up, the other down.  And with right
hand rule, both will see a force outward, or both inwards. That seems
to be consitent with the siple idea of currents pulling wires gogether
with the electon effectg alone.

But, if we shift to a frame of referece of either electon, we have
no motion at all, and no added force!  So that doesn't work!

so, lets look two electons traveling parallel, but in opposit directions
at the same speed.

From one frame of referce of one electon, it's standing still, and
the other is moving creating a magnetic field. But we are not moving
so there is no motion though a field, so no force?

But is it valid to think the magnetic field is moving along with the
electron in this case, and that counts as the stationary electon "moving"
through the field?


Ok, found kahan acadimy lectures as well.  Basic magnatism like I've
learned in the past.

But cool think is F= q(v X b) is the basic force equation!

So, I don't understand relative issues of how to define B relative to
veocpety of moving elecotn yet, but I'm getting there.  And all this is
telling me that when electons move, they force each other to chagne path,
not just do to the static charge, but due to the fact that are moving!

But looking deeper, the magnetic field generated is propotiona to the RATE
OF CHANGE if the electical field one of the maxwell equations says. But
that's nt right. A DC electo magnet produces a fixed magentic field with
no chagne in the current.  Again, contricitions in my undresanding show
I don't undrestand something.

Oh, I see, the fixed current creates a fixed magnetic field. But a
changing current also adds or subtracts from that field stength as
well! So it's again not just the velicty, but the chagne in feleicty
that effects the field strength.

So, if I understand, a moving electon creates a magnetic field. But a
moving election undergoding accelaration, creates a different strength
field!  Could that be an odd time delay issue?  Or odd self feedback
comlexity? The type of thikng we could remove from our simuation and
see re-emerge as feedbackloops in the system?

Ok, so on the belief that we do this with field that have no time delay,
we cna look for simpler answers first, and code, and see what happens,
or check math etc, and see if the more complex effects is what energes
from the sytem due to the infinite number ofeedback paths in the system
between all particles all the time?

So maybe the slimits ide ais moving elecgon is current, it crates
a magnetic field, that cuuses other elctons to bend their path.

----

Thought -- forces must be equal and opposit always!  So however we
calcuate the force on one particle, the matching opposit force
must be applied to the other!

When the two pass each other they create an effect it seems.

So all other velocties I think must be projected onto the line
ebtween the two, and we ignore the effect of them moving away
or towrds each other, and only look at the relative velocoty
of the two moving at right angles to each other.  And the faster
the relative perpenduclar velocoety the stronger the magnetic
bending effect!

But, two electgons travelling partallel to each other will end
up with zero net effect on each other in this case.  Which might
be perfectly fine!  Meaning for two wires to bend together,
it really quest there be postive ions going to the other way
in relative terms!

so we have two frames of reference there, the electon FOR
or the ion FOR and we could check the math to see if it all
works out the same from either?  Or from any made up other
ground FOR.

Yeah, and two of the same charge moving oppois of teach other
will push aprt but a + and - moving opoisit, will pull together!

So an orbiting e p will pull together!  And the faster the
orbit, the more it pulls together?  And what about distance
aprt?  The closet together, the stronger tbe magnetic field?

So the closer the orbit, the faster, and the more the magnetic
effect pulls the two together as well?  Weird.

----

fuck yes,  Mag field generated by moving point charge:

http://www.phys.uri.edu/gerhard/PHY204/tsl210.pdf


"strength of a magnetic field pased on motion of a charge"

Googling this produced a list of intesting papers...

----

Charged particles produces a perfect circle in a magenetic field! Or will
spiral up or down...

Oh, fuck, and orbting electon will produce a magenet field that will
cause another chagned particle to spin as well parallel to it!

Oh, and e and p in orbit will spin in opposit directions!  But due to
their opposit charges, their fields will add I tihnk.  Or wait do they
rotate in opposit or the same directions! gee, I'm confused now. I think
due to center of mass, they roate the same way. Yes answer seems to be
same way.  so their fields would cancle out except the electon moves
faster, so makes a strong field since the e and b have the same charge?
or do their different size orbits make up for the difference somehow?
Oh, so so so confusing all this.

Oh, I've made progress on nailing down more formauls and con cdepts but
still muchconfusion to be worked out.

And one paper clealry implied dealyed time effects of maganetic field
effecting distant particle.  Time delay for something at least, maybe
just magenetic, maybe both electostaic and magent effects??

Dman, need to run to BGOP.  It's fucking 8:20PM already.

[8:20 PM]

================================================================================

2016-09-22 10:27 AM Thursday

Yesterday

1) Found some more interesting papers and formulas on single charge magnetic
effects.

2) More thinking and digging and learning.

Today

Giving BGOP demo to shool kids at 1am.  Must leave soon to get shop set
up.

But I had a collection of thoughts while thinking about magnatism effects
last night in bed.

One, I now understand the comment I read about magnatism not doing work!
The force on a moving particle is always perpendicular to motion so
it will never change it's speed or KE!  It will only change it's direction!
Odd, but intersting.  Electic motors do work. But I guess the argument
here is that the magnetic field is not doing the work?  Not sure how
to recocile that idea.  But it's like making the particles bounce at the
wall in the simulation doesn't change energy since it's only a veloctiy
direction change.

How does an electic motor do work if a magnetic field can't move energy?
I guess the obvious ansewr has to be that the electrostatic field has to do
the work in the end.  Or, in other words, the resitance to flow in the
wires of the motor is created by the electrostaic field even if the flow
is created by the magnetic field?

Ok, so, also, I was wrong (I think) yesterday when I said foces have
to balance.  The equations don't work that way.  The movement of p1
relative to our point of view creates the magnetic field at p2 and
the movement of p1 defines how much force there is on p1.  So the
movement of p1 creates the force on p2 to make it's direction bend.
And the movement of P2 creates the force on p1 make it's direction bend.
If we change the point of view so p1 has no velocity, then there is no
B force on p2 and no direction change.  There must be movement in both
P1 and P2 for there to be direction change, which means both P1 and P2
will end up bending their direction.

This is all based on the formula that says B = u/4pi (q1v1 X r^) / r^2 and
F2 = q2V2 X B

This sure seems to violate inertia frame of reference independence.

Both have to be moving before there is any effect.  So if we change frame
of reference to either of the moving particles it kills all the effect.

I guess maybe we could consider relative velociety for both.  So the velocity
used to define the field is the same as the one used to define bend?

So, if P1 is standing still and P2 zips past.  We can say P2 is generating the
magnaetic field at that speed. But that p1 is logically moving through the field
at the same relative speed.  Or, we can think of the field generated by the
moving particle as moving itself, and use that as part of the formula.

Ok, so later I can check that logic to see if applying the formulas in that
way makes it point of reference invariant.

---

Ok, another point, magenetic constant is DEFINED as 4PIe-7 so above, B
reduces to B = e-7 (q1v1 X r) / r^2

Or total force is:

F = q2 V2 X (e-7 q1 v 1 x r) / r^2

I think constants can moved outside in a cross product so:

F = q1 q2 1e-7 (V2 x V1 x r) / r^2

If we do the relative velocity trick, I wonder if this works out to be
equal and opposit forces anyhow?

Hey, wait. If it's not equal and opposit forces, then we fail to maintain
conservation of monumtum in the system!  And that won't work.  So I
think we do in the end have to end up with equal and opposit forces,
and maybe that works with the idea of thinking the B field as "moving"
to resolve the frame of reference issue.  Or, in other words, we can
also probably calucate the froce once, and apply it to both particles
in equal and opoosit ways.

I'll have to think though all this math and the implications but this
sort of feels like we are headed to the right answer. Or one that seems
like maybe it fits the rules of physics.

But I'm not seeing anything in this that suggests a speed of light limit.

But again, that might still be a kenetic energy probigation speed though
space effect that shows up in fields of particles vs indivdiual particles?

And all the complexity of bending space time is an effect that might
only show up as an emergent property of the kenetic energy probigating
though space as well.

[11:09 AM]

Must pack up stuff for demo and head to BGOP...

Wait, but if the force is equal and opposit, it will end up doing
work won't it?  Or maybe due to the double cross produts, it still
maintains it's property of applying force perpendicular to both
velocity vectors?  Ok, got to check for that...

----

[4:51 PM]

Back home from demo at shop.  Took shower.  Now I'm tired and about
to pass out.  Going to see magnificant 7 movie at Angelica tonight!

Hungry but don't want to eat. Will have popcorn at movie.

Funny story about shopt.  Wheen there an hour early to set up.  was
going to go yesterday to make sure all was fine but didn't.  Got
there today and damn lights wouldn't come on in the half of the shop
I was going to the demo!  Got the ladder and checked out what was
going on with the wires and like.  fianlly figred it out.  I hadn't
turned the light swtich on! It's been so long since I opened the shop
and turned on the lights I forogt there were two light swtiches
and I only turned on one!  How stupid....

--

Thinking about physics and dot product.

The formulas I've found implied a moving particle creates a magnetic
field at the other particle which is basically B = v1 x r in direction.
Then v2 x B is the force vector to causes v2 to curve.

And we do this backwards to see how p2 effects P1.  But the two forces
that make P1 and P2 move I'm pretty sure need to be equal and opposit
in order to mantain contant monentum of the system.  And at first glance
these two formulas don't look like they would be equal and opposit.

I guess a simple place to start is code it and calcuate it for random
sets of two particles and see if the resulting force vectors work out
to be equal and opposit!

Then, if it is not equal and opposit, we could make it, by assuming
that if the magnetic field of P1 puts a force on P2, then we must put
the inverse force to P1!  And does the inverse force do no work on P1?

I bet it does work on P1!  Ug, but no, it can't!  if it does work on P1
but not P2 then we have an energy imbalance!  if there is no work done
to P1 then there must be no work done to P2!

Ok, so we force the inverse to blance montum.  Then sum the two resulting
vestors and then what?  They balance as equal and oppsot, but do they
do work? I bet they will!  Meaning magnetic field do in fact do work!
But they do it by pushing back on the source of the magnetic field!

And I bet, there's a simpler way to calucate that combined vector in
one equation!  LIke v1 x v2 sort of stuff.

Ok, so I think coding this is the simple way to go instead of struggling
over a few pages of math to try and figure it out.

================================================================================

2016-09-23 12:51 AM Friday

Yesterday

1) Still slowly trying to make progress on undersanding how to code
magnatism.

Did the school BGOP demo for the groups at the forge.  All went well.
Phil was in England so he couldn't do it this year.  He's normally been
doing it for this group.

Saw the magnificant 7 movie last night.  Western.  Cool stuff.

Today

Just posting on facebook about.

So, I think I have enough understanding of magnatism to try and do some
coding to confirm how it works or doesn't work...

Using the point charge formulas for defining magnetic field, and for
defining the force creted when a second charge particle moves through the
field, I can code that.  And I've decided, for now, that if P1 creates
a magnetic field that creates a forc3e on P2, that we must apply the
equal and opposit force to P1.  P1 is "pushing" P2.

So, in a large simulation, we are talking about adding matching forces
4etween every set of two particles in this way.  But we have to do it
both ways -- how the mostion of P1 creates force on the motion of P2,
but inversely how the motion of P2 creates force on P1.

Which is all odd, since the end result needs to be to find out what
the sum of those two forces are!  And treat it like one force that is
created between both due to the motion!

The math I a bit beyond my easy undrstanding, so I think th ebetter way
to get a grasp of this is to code some experment.

For example, how strong is this force compared to the electostatic force?

is it normally small compared to the electo static force?  Or can it be
very large at times when the particles move fast enough?

Maybe I could/should code some graphics to draw the force and veloctiy
vectors?

So lets jump into the code.

----

[4:11 PM]

Coded some tests.  Calucating magenet field B and force F that p1 will
apply to P2.  Fixed some coding bugs/typops, but still trying to grasp
if it's correct.

Using two particles, on the same x axles so y and z are the same (0).
Switching from Proton's to Electons only fkips signs. The different mass
does't come into play because only the charge counts and the carges are
the same but opposit signs. Two electons produce the same numbers as
two protons beucaes of the double flipping of signs.

Need to check if my vectors got the signs right and all correctly follow
the right hand rule.

Tried added Z and thought it would not change results. Fuck, now I see.
Adding X should not change reuslts (if they move towards or away from each
other it won't create force -- only moving sidewise causes the effect).
I got my axes confused.

Oh, right.  The movemtnt of P1 which is creating the magnetic field has
the velocity towards the other particle rmoved by the cross product. So
in my test, the x velocity of the particle crating the field, isnot
important.  Changing x doesn't change the B field created.  But when this
is reversed, the force IS affected, by X.  And I'm thinking that when
we create the invese and sum to get total foce as I'm guessing I must,
that all velocties will end up changing the final result!

----

Ok, code seems like maybe it's doing the right thing. But boy is this
all so amazingly hard to understand.

For creating the magnetic field, the motion towards or away from the the
other particle is factored out. But creating the force from the field,
motion in line with the field is factored out, but the field is 90%
out of line with rHat the vector to the other field.   This all ends up
being too confusing for me to visualize or intuitively undrestand yet.

There must be something intuitive here to understand somewhere.

Oh, and the force strenth is like 10 to 20 orders of magnature weeker
then the EM field strength! So it's going to have like no effect on
orbital dynamics unless we do very large experments I think.  But I need
to verify I'm using the right units and conversion constants in my code
first to veryify I've not messed that up.

Also, all this code is based on velocity only.  Isn't there a requiment
for magnetic field to be based on change in velocity???  Ah, but ok.
If FORCE is baesd on velocity, FORCE then translates to the change in
velocity.  So we get the velocity of one particle defining the change
in velociety of the other!  Or, in effect, the current in one place
defining the change in current in another.

I feel the need to ask WHY would the universe work this way?  It feels
like there should be a simpler or more fundamental answer hidden under
here relating how the position and movement of one particle effects the
position and movement of another.

Ok, ignore that for now, lets double check units to see if these numbers
are correct.

----

Ok, did a bumch of double checking and I think that what I'm seeing
with the magnetic force is correct. Units look corect as verified
through a few exmaples and checking units -- but there are not many
formuals for exctly what I'm trying to do so much is still sort
of unclear and uncertain.

This site as intersting iformation and new insight for me:

ttp://hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu/hbase/electric/elefie.html

Inlucind for exmaple:

c = 1/sqrt(u0 e0)

Relating electic and magnetic permablity.

Odd fucking stuff I don't fully grasp.  More relativity stuff.

The formulals I'm using need the U0 constant to convert motion to
magnetic field, to force to motion.  It relates how the motion of one
charged particle forces a changein the path of another.

So what the fuck does this have to do with c???

But maybe this is all consistent with my thinking that c is a fall out of
how kenetic energy moves though a collection of particles and where the
true force is instant, but that the transfer of kenetic energy is limited
by c.  So the f=ma is what causes the transfer speed to be be limited
then if velociety (aka kenetic enety of one) is related to velcoiety
of another, then it seems valid, that c can part of the equation.
Roughly. Without careful thought.

electrostatic charge is what makes capactiors work!

magnetic is what make inductors work!

This is cool way to understand these forces I didn't think of until this
web site. Even though I basically knew this for 40 years, I only made
the connection just now!

But again, this way of thiinking continues to make these two foces
seem to be totally unrelated forces in nature, when in fact they are
basically the same force in a way -- they are how electons (and protons)
push each other around.  There must be one simple formula to describe
it all insead of treating it as two sperate forces?

Is it our notion of nation being in a fixed state and moving though time
that is causes us to break it into the static force separate from the
magnetic foce?

Is the magenetic force, maybe just an adjustment to our bad understanding
of the static force to "corect" it ot be how it really works?

---

Ok, thinking of a EM wave as it's often described as electrostatic
and magnet fields moving though spac3e....  What if this only happens
due to propigation though fields of particles?  So, inteting question,
how much "stuff" is in space? What is the particle densoity of space?
Like between earth and the sun?

---

Answer, even in deep deep space, it's estimated to have a density of
about one hydrogen atom per cubic meter -- not empty at all!  And the
space in our solar system will have much more!  So still billions and
bilions and bilions of particles in the field betgween the sun and us
and evetything else to relay em radition!

So, to support this idea, I have to show how the math works out for the
spread of kenetic energy through a field of particles or atoms. Got to
keep that on the todo list...

But magnatism is just fucking weird and I don't really grasp it when I try
to express it in terms of two interacting particles like I'm working on.

The force is so amazingly weak, that for much of my simulation it seems
likeit will below the 16 digit resolution of floatin gpoinst!  And only
when near the speed of light, will it start to show much effect for
indiviual particles!

So, tomorrow, I'll have to add the magnetic code to the simlation and
see hot it changes behavior!  I think my approach to making the inverse
force applied to the "sending" particle and vise versa is valid.

And, then, can we somehow reduce and simplify the formauls so as to
make one calcuation of the paried force, between two particles, isntead
of two backwards calcuations?  If it were simple algreba I could doit,
but wtih the cross product stuff and vectors, I don't know if I know
enough to rewrite and simply the formulas into one!

I guess with the help of computer code, and guess and test to find it! :)

But now, soup for dinner and TV!  Watching Angel still. The gang figured
out Cordy was evil, and she just had the evil baby -- the woman eveyone
loves! I forgot about her!

[8:32 PM]

----

OTher big hanging unsnwered questions is frame of referece problems...

My formulas are maybe wrong due to not dealing with this correctly!

I think maybe, the B field created by a moving particles, needs to be
understood as moving itself!  And the speed at which the other particles
is "moving though" the b field, needs to include this face to get the
forces correcgt, and my current code is ot doing that!

The first article is moving, and creates a field, but I'm treading the
field as if it's standing still.

So, in my current code, two particles moving in a parallel motion,
create fields, and create force -- but they probably shouldn't!

Think about that tomorrow! And play with test code!

================================================================================

2016-09-24 8:44 AM Saturday

Yesterday

1) Wrote first code to calculate magnetic field and force to try and
understand how it works.

2) Found the magnetic field and force created by a moving electron is
MANY orders of magnatude weaker than the electostaic force.  In some
cases, more than the 16 digits of floating pont precision making it

3) Spent time to verify my units and constants were all correct in the
formulas to make sure the number calucated was correct.  Seems to be
correct, but it could use more checking.  This is all very questionable
beause none of the stanradard formuals you find all over physcis books are
set up to define how to electons interact with each other. They all define
macro level emergent behavior of large systems of electons interacting
(flux generated by an electro magenet, etc).  A single electon is not
the same thing as a current flowing in a wire.  The wire creates a
background frame of reference by which to measure against and a static
background of postive ions the electons jump between.  Not the same as
one electron in free space with no background ions or anything else to
establish a frame of reference effect.

4) Still have unsanswered questions about how motion is dealt with in
the formuals and my current approach produces very different results in
different inertial frames of referece which means it's wrong since the
frame of reference is a pure measurement fiction.  At the end of the day
yesterday decided that I should check out the idea that the magnetic field
of a moving particle should be thought of as moving with the particle.
This might make factor out the frame of reference, but at the same tine,
it makes the very concept of a magnetic field invalid if it must move with
the particle that creates it beucase then the magnetic field fiction is
a function of the arbitrary choice of how we choose to measure it.  So,
first, need to check out if doing that actually resolves the frame of
reference problem -- aka produces the same force answer no matter what
frame of reference we use. Then, if that's true, it means what we are
really calcuating is something simpler that doesn't include the pseudo
concept of a magnetic field.

Today

Push forward on trying to identify the correct forumauls.  And if I think
I might have valid formual for magnatism, add them to the simluation and
see how it effects motion of particles.  Might be so small as to not
be able to see any real difference until I simulate large sets of atoms.
But it might change small effects in important ways in terms of how
ep pairs syncrhnize -- or what the orbit of one e and two p looks like
and how well they glue together!  Which would be key and imporant if
it helped that!

Useful comment from Tesla wikipage:

"A particle, carrying a charge of one coulomb, and passing through a
magnetic field of one tesla, at a speed of one metre per second,
perpendicular to said field, experiences a force with magnitude one newton,
according to the Lorentz force law."

This makes the units clear for the force as F=qvB.  So I know I have
those units correct in the formula since I'm using coulombs and m/s.

But the calculation of the field strenth is not explained by that.

The field strenth is u/4pi q v X r / r^3  or rHat/r^2

Ok, now that I look at this, WTF!  If the magnetic field is defined by
the motion, how is vXr needed?  vXr factors out the velocity component
in the direction of the point we are calculating the field strength.
So which part of the veloctiy gets factored out is controlled by .... ah
no it's not as strange as I thought beuase it's controlled by our choice
of 3D grid which defines the point as well as the velociety relative to
that grid.

Ok, but we factor out part of the velocity and ignore it. We ignore all
velocity in the direction of the distant point.  So moving towards and
away from the point doesn't change the force we create on it.  But on
the other side, moving towards and away from the source, DOES effect the
force.  Which is non-symmetrical so it's wrong.  Or, it's hiding a deeper
true meaning.  These equations MUST reduce down to a simpler symmetrical
formula when we have to electrons interacting or else it's invalid.

f=qvB

f = qv u/4pi qv x r / r^3

f = u/4pi q1 q2 v^2 / r^2 (just more units check)

Coulombs law for force:

f = 1/(4pi e) q1 q2 / r^2
f = 1/(4pi e) q1 q2 / r^2
f = uc^2/4pi q1 q2 / r^2

c = 1/sqrt(u0 e0)
c^2 = 1/u e

Ok, so coulombs law of force and the magentic force calcuation ends
up being very simular, but the firist is using c^2 where the second us
using v1*v2 of the velocity of the two charged particles.

Well, isn't that odd?  To calucate the static force, we plug in a
velociety of the speed of light (in a way).

It really feels like there is a hidden general forumal here, and that
as we have it split between static and magnetic, that the magnetic is
just the fudge factor to correct the error in the static.  And seeing
that this works out to c^2 it makes we wonder if the static is similar
to moving at the speed of light and the fudge factor is the adjustment
for it moving slower????

Or, in the way the claculation for magentic works out we are ignoring part
of the velociety vectors.  Is the part of the velociety we are ignoring
the part that would explain the static force if we didn't ignore it???

And why is it all done this way?  I would assume beuase in real material
we tend to have all the static forces cancled out with equal numbers of
protons and electons leaving only the non-static forces to measure when we
measure the effects of current and movement to define the magnetic forces.
So historicaly, we have looked at the probnlem from that direction.

So, my goal, will be to try and reduce all thse equations down to one
that explains all EM force in one symmetrical frame invariant equation
for how the particles interact. Or, one that explains what the total
force vector is.

Ok, so must push forward with trying to get the magnetic forumals on
their own correct -- aka frame infairant and symetical.  Then combine
them to one big total force equation and see if I can simplify.

Will play with moving mag field concept and see what that does to the
calucations.

----

OK, very cool.  It works.  Or at least, it makes it inertia frame of
reference invariant if I consider the velcoiety that p2 is moving through
the magnetic fieled to be v2-v1 instead of just it's own v2.

And this is really odd because even though total force is now the same
as I add and suptract random relative velociety to switch the inertal
frame of reference, the two magnetic vields are very different in each
inertia field of reference!

Which just shows that the magnetic field concept is an odd fiction.

I've seen multiple reference that said whether it looks like an E field
or a B field depends on frame of reference. But I thought that was more
to do with relativity.  This seems to be simpler because there is no
speed of light limit at work in my equations.  I don't think.

So, two particles in parallel relative motion have no force between
them, which makes sense and seems logical.  So, even though wires pull
together with parallel current, it's NOT the current that is pulling them
together! It's the reltiave motion of the current against the background
postive ions that does the pulling!

But, just because this makes the system frame of reference invariant,
is it actually correct???

----

With this new relative code, the velocity of the two particles moving
towards each other has no effect on the total force!  The odd lack of
symmetry is gone!  As it logically should be! (EDIT: NO NO NO)

So, with my two particles on the same x axis alightment, I should be
able to assign randome value to the two x velocity components and it
won't change the total force answer!

---

NOT TRUE.  Ok, changing the x velocity effects the y and z force but
not the x force!  So my first test above, y and z force was zero, so
changing x didn't change y and z still zero.  I thought this meant x
wasn't important at all. But it most certainly is.

So, I've set it up to assign random values to all 6 velocity vectors and
cacluate the total force, then randomly adjust the velocity to change
to a different inertial frame of reference.  And the total force is the
same every time.

Also -- doubling the velociety makes the force 4 times as large!
so force is v^2. Which seems consistent with other formula.

what if I double all the v components at the same time instead of just
one?

----

When I change x velocity, the x force stays the same, but y and z cchange.
My particles are allgned parllel to the x axes.

When I change y velocity, the Z forces remain the same, and the other
two change! Fucking intersting.

And as expected, when I change z velocity randomly, the Y forces remain
the same, but the x and z change!

And, changing inertial frame of refrence, while doing the above random
change of one axes, has the same effect on the results.

So, this means, looking at relative velocities, we know that when the
particles are aligned parallel to the x axes:

only vx and vy are used to calculate fy

only vy and vz are used to calculate fx

only vx and vz are used to calculate fz

Ok, so if only the relative speed they are passing each other is used
to caluculate how much they pull together or push apart, we should be
able to rotate the vy vz vector to point in any direction, and have
it produce the same fx force!  Logically it should work that way since
orrinention of grid is again, an measurement fiction.  lets check.

----

Rotation of relative xy changed all force values.  Oh, but shit, that's
not what I was wanting to code.  Wanted to code vy and vz roation,
not vx,vy! Try again.

--

YES!  So randomly change vy and vz on the p1 only, so that the relative
vx vy vector between the two particles is randomly roated but keeps the
same magnatude, causes fx between the two aka the force straight between
the two particles, to stay the same!

And if we double the magnatue, what happens?

Yes, when we rotate and double the velociety magnatude, it does a v^2
effect and makes the force 4 times as large in the x direction!

And when we do random inertia shift at the same time, no difference.

---

What about the total force magnatude???

Yes, fucking cool.  When we random rotate vy,vz vextor, fx stays the same
and fy and fz change, but total force (magnatude of force) stays the same!

Which is all like we want because gemeticlaly, if these are the only two
particles in the univese, direction is undefined against any background
so the only thing that should be able to change, is the direction of
the motion, not it's magnatude.

But when we rotate other vectors, it does change relative to the only
two particles in the system. So everthing changes!

So yes, when going back to only roating vx,vy, everytghing chagnes.
Total force changes as well as each fx,fy,fz

---

Ok, it seems like this is working very well.  At least it has the right
behavior under inertia frame of reference shift, and the logically correct
symetry effects, so that only what is relative to the two paticles can
effect how the two particles interct with each other.

And only inertal of velociety, and locaiton, can effect it!

I think maybe the next thing to do is write out the forumaul for total
magnaetic force, and see if we can simplify it!

Then, total force, combining magnetic and electostatic, and see if that
can be simplified...

And try to code ths formula into the simatuion and see how it changes
behavior (I can run parallel runs that start the same but one that
includes magnatism and one that does not and see how they differ).


-----

[2:03 PM]

HOLY MOTHER OF GOD!

Changing the distance between the two particles has NO EFFECT ON MAGNETIC FORCE!

HOW THE FUCK?  Did I mess something up???  There's an 1/r^2 factor in there. Did
I leave that out by mistake?  Or did the new formual end up canceling out the effect?

Paricles 1 angstrum apart have the same force on each other that are 1000 light
years apart!  if this is true.

Let me check the code and see what I messed up...

- 

YES I FUCKED UP.  I left out the 1/r^2 term!!!!

But fucking cool!  When I added it back in, the magnetic force is the same order of magnatude
as the es force when the velocity is close to the fucking speed of light and the distance
is close to 1 Angstrom! When somewhat less than the speed of light, it's smaller!

This means that magnatic force will make real changes to orbital patterns when the velocity
is near the speed of light! Which might, have an effect that prevents the ep pair from
going faster than the speed of light!  It might force them to fly apart into higher and slower
orbit when they get near the speed of light!!!!

This is exciting shit.

What will the orbital behavior be like when they get near to the speed of light!!!

Well, I need to cut the grass.  Should have done it yesterday.  Then there will be
food issues.  Then TV.  Might not get back to this until tomorrow!

[2:25 PM]

----

Played around with forcing  the relative velociety to be the speed of light.

When I do this, the total force always seems to be less than the es force, but yet very
close to the same at times.

This makes me beleive, that the max magnet force can be, is equal to the es force,
if the velociety is in just the right relationship -- maybe 90deg to each other?
Or 180?

Which seems possibly consistent with es being based on c^2?

--

And this is not related to distance!  That is, forces are much smaller when the particles
are futher apart, but the fat that mag force is the same as es force, holds true even
when they are far apart as long as the speed is near the speed of light!

So, very cool.  How does this all effect orbatial behavior!!! That's the huge fucking
question...

================================================================================

2016-09-25 8:25 AM Sunday

Yesterday

1) Changed code to treat magnetic field as moving with the particle
that creates it.  So when the other particle moves through the field,
the velocity we use is the relative velociety of the two working together
(V2-V1). This seems to have fixed all the frame of reference problems.
At least, the system now acts indidpently of the frame of reference --
which I take as a basic logical requirement.  Particles shouldn't move
in different ways must becuase of my choice of scale and units and frame
of reference!

2) With above change, and with dual calcuations of p1 magfield on p2
and p2 mag field on p1, and summing the forces, we now have a total
force that is totally indepdent of frame of reference!  As it must be!
Two particles moving in unison, have no magnetic force between them!
This feels correct.  Logically. But I have no real clue if this actually
fits realitly.  It feel right, but more testing is needed.

3) Found I accidently left out the 1/r^2 term!  Which made force indepdent
of distance between particles!  And when I fixed that, something cool
showed up!  The mag force is no longer orders of magnatude smaller than
the electostatic force.  When the particles are moving near the speed of
light (3e8) the magnetic force and the electostic forces are approxiamatly
the same!  Maybe under the right conditions, exactly identical?  And this
holds for all distances apart!  So particles moving near the speed of
light will most certaonly have very different orbital paths!

4) Noticed fascinating effets of how velocty on different axis effects
total force on different axes.  I have the two test particles on an axis
that is parallel to the x axes.  In this configuation, only the velociety
on the Y and Z axes has a force effect on the X axes.  X velociety has
no effect on X axes force!  So only relative sidewise motion controls how
the two particles pull together or push apart!  Likewise, intersting
relations like this work for the other forces as well.  Only X and Y
control the Z force, only X and Z control the Y force!

5) All the above is done using simple test code to calculate the force
between two particles.  Not wired into the simuation yet so I haven't
seen how these forces change orbital dynamics yet.  Still trying to
play with the formuals to make sure they are correct and to fully
understand them.

Today

Going to movie this morning with Pig. Pete's Dragon.  Later.

I stil want to get a better intuative feel for how motion controls force
with these formulas.  So I have a basic instinct of how particles should
interact.

Also, I want to try and reduce the math down to a simpler formula for
total magnetic force instead of this two step process for calcuating
B then F in both directions and summing them.  Seems like it should
reduce to something far simpler  Certainly, it should only be based on
relative velocity.

Then also try to combine electrostatic force and see if the whole
thing can be reduced down to a simpler form -- instictively, it feels
like the univese will REQUIRE it to be possible to simpliy it down to
one formula. Our abstraction of magnetic field being different from
electostatic feels to have happaned only due to how the magnetic field
tends to manafest itself probably as orbital behavior of atoms.

But overall, what we are talking about here is now the position and motion
of one paritcle, controls the motion of all the others.  or when both
particles are the same like two electons, how they choose to "dance"
around each other!  Logically, if feels like this dance must be one
formula not two separate sets of rules.

And of course, how magnetic field is conceptualized in this math, is
just crazy beuase the magnetic field changes based on our choice of frame
of reference -- which means it's not really there at all. Our choice of
measurment frame can't control what the unviese does.  How the neruons
in my head fire can't control how atoms interact.

Magnetic fields created by magenets of course are very real.  But they
are created by some relative internal motion of particles in the magnet.
The physical structure of the material defines the frame of reference
that we use to understand the "magnetic field" from.  Once the problem
is reduced down to how two individual electons intracet, there is no
seprate frame of reference defintion anymore which is why the concept
of magnetic field becomes bogus -- and why at the core of this problem
the entire abstract concept is basicaly wrong.

--

On to a better intuitive understanding..

If two electons pass in space parallel, do they push apart or pull
together?   What happens as they approach, and as they leave?

I think they should pull together. (opposit if what parallel current
in wire seems to do).  Same should be true for two protons. But a +-
pair should push apart.  So, this force of motion is acting AGAINST the
electrostaic force!  If this is true...

---

When two protons fly past each other at 1/2 the speed of light, so
that their relative velocity IS the speed of light, then the X force is
EXACTLY EQUAL to the ES FORCE!  That's fucking cool that the math works
out that way.  But is this math correct? Still no clue.

But, the signs of this?  I don't know.  Let me check...

But I'm expecting that protons push away, and mag force should
pull together?  So that at the speed of light the froces cancel out?
That would set the system up to create stable orbitals.  But my current
math looks like it's working the other way....  That the force would
just doble at the speed of light...  Ugh, that doesn't sound useful for
where I'm hoping this will lead...  Let me look closely at the signs...

---

ES  Force between p1 p2 (-2.3070872449372317e-08, 0.0, 0.0)

Mag Field B on p1 created by p2 field (-0.0, -0.0, -240.16074017921997)
Mag Field B on p2 created by p1 field (0.0, 0.0, -240.16074017921997)

Mag Force2  on p1 created by p2 field (-1.1535436224686162e-08, 0.0, 0.0)
Mag Force2  on p2 created by p1 field (1.1535436224686162e-08, 0.0, 0.0)

Total2 on p1 (-2.3070872449372324e-08, 0.0, 0.0) 2.30708724494e-08
Total2 on p2 (2.3070872449372324e-08, 0.0, 0.0) 2.30708724494e-08

---

In above, we see totel ES force as

-2.3070872449372317e-08  ES Force
-2.3070872449372324e-08  Total Mag froce

Notice one ends in 17 and the other in 24

Wonder where this difference comes from?

Ah, the speed of light is now a defined constant and meter and second are
defined from it.  So e and u and k all relate to each other from this
constant I think and I probably have a slight difference somewhere.
If not just accumulated rounding errors in how the math works outs.
I'll track down why this small difference later.

---

Oh weird.  First -- the signs check out as INCREASING the force!  So two
Protons that normally push away, push HARDER when they move past each
other!  I assume same is true for two electons, and inverse for electon
proton -- but I need to check to be sure.

I also don't trust this.  This is baesd on current flow logic.  And I
wonder if current flow is actualy backwards from what free moving
particles?  Ah, but no.  Remember.  I decided the reason two wires pull
together when current flows the same way, beuaes the electons have no
effect on each other due to moving in parallel -- but the elecotns moving
opposit the protons pull together! So this might be all right.

But here's the fun thing.  Electron at 0,0, second one at 1,1 offset at
45 deg to each other.  First is moving straight up(+y), second is moving
straight down (-y) -- so they are appraoching each other, but have not
alligned yet.  The X force from the magnetic field is exactly the same
as the ES force -- that is pushing at a 45 deg angle!  So at a relative
speed being the speed of light, the mag force is exactly the same as
the ES force. But the ES force operates in line between the two.  And the
MAG force operates perpendicular to the motion, but in the same plane
as the R revector.  At least in this case.

But due to the need for symmetry, I'm thinking it will be this way in
all cases.  which means, mag force is always operating at 90 deg to
motion!  Shit.  I thought I concluded it didn't do that in all cases?

But if that IS what it's doing, then this becomes easy to conceptilize.
of light, the mag force is exactly 

----

Yes, confirmed that switching between electons and protons the math all
works as expected.  Just flips signs.  So matchin ++ or -- will push
apart, and push apart HARDER when in motion.  and +- will pull together,
and pull together HARDER when in motion.

This seems like it would create odd postive feedback for orbits instead
of negative feedabak to make the system find stable points.

Maybe for reasons I don't undestand, the sign is backwards?

But according to documentation on the internet, and right hand rule I've
got it right.  Claims Current flow, or qv flow (charge time velocity)
works the same way.

Ah, but that is the rule for a particle does IN a magenet field.  Maybe
genertaing a magnetic field is backwards for charged particles?

---

Ok, when two particles approach each other, there is no mag force!

So, if we look at the relative velociety, translate to the idea of one
standing still and the other moving, then the mag force is always 90 deg
to the motion, and parallel to the r vector and equal in size to the EM
relative to c???

When heading straight together there is no 90 deg, so the fact it falls
to 0 force makes some sense.  But it should change in force relative to
how much it's in line with the two and my other logic suggests that's
not true.  So more testing needed to better understand!

---

Question -- if I just flip the sign of the mag field, does it change
the cauclations and produce different numbers, or just flip the sign of
the answer?

----

[2:13 PM]

Back from movie.  wasted time on facebook.

yes, flipping the sign of the magnetic field does just flip the sign of
the final force for the magnetic field.

There might be a reason that the for electon to electon (particle to
particle) we need to do the invese the sign of what seems to be normal
for an electron magnetic field.  But I don't know what it is.

So for postive current flow, they right hand rule applies.

----

Yes, digging on the internet, it's clear that the right hand rule applies
to postive current flow for direction of fulx in an electomagnet.
And that this same direction, runs outside the magenet from north to
south poles. (backwards inside I guess).

And the earth if a magenet with the S at the north poor and N at the south
pole so that a magents north pole in a compas will point to the north!

But is current flow different than electon/proton flow?  Eletron flow
in a wire, is what current really is, and that produces left hand rule
flux.  But for current to flow in a wire, postive ions have to logically
be "moving" the other way -- even though they don't move.

But the act of an electron jumping from one atom to the ion next to it,
turning the atom it was in, into an ion, has effectively made a postive
charge move opposit of the direction of the electron flow.  But the "hand"
rules give us the same field direction either way -- whether we look at
it as negatve charges moving to the right, or positive charfges moving
to the left.  How could be end up needing to be backwards?

--

Ok, so this page:

http://academic.mu.edu/phys/matthysd/web004/l0220.htm

Claims two protons moving side by side, have a magenetic field between
them.  And they just use the velocity of the parallel motion to calculate
it.  But I say, there would be no force because the relatlve velociety
is zero.

I strongly suspect (wonder) that physics think that current in a wire
is the same thing as moving point charge, when it's not.

So if you have a stream of electyons in free space, the way they would
intereact with another stream of electons, might not be the same as
how they react when the electons are a current in a wire!

CRTs use electo magnets to bend the electon beam.  So there is no dount
this effect is well studied -- how an electomagnet creates a field that
will beend the path of a charged particle, either a proton or electron.

But I wonder, have they have tested to electon beems in free space
interacting with each other?

Something I read said they "can't" test electons becuase the elecrto
static foce dominates the test until you get the electon up near
the speed of light -- and they can't get the electons moving anywhere
near that fast I think.  So at the speed they can make electons
move with milions of dollars of specialized hardware, I think they
can't test how the magnetic field is working!

I feel the entire concept of a "magenetic field" is in deep question
here!

So maybe, when electrons move through a wire, the magnetic field is
inverted from expectations, of current flow, due to complex interactions
between the moving electrons and the atoms.  Maybe the electons force
the atoms to produce the field, and the field it produces ending
up being inverted?

If no one really understand atomic orbital dynamics, then I think this
is not out of the question.

So, 1) they assume electron motion of current is producing the field, when
it's not, and 2) they have never tested the magnetic interactdion of
free electons to know it's backwards from what they think?

It's hard to justify that they don't have a clue about something so
totally studied as electo magnatism, but maybe???

So, I can certainly just test it both ways and see if one produces
intersting orbital dymaics and the other fails.

If neither produces intersting orbital dynmaics, then I don't have the
right answer!

----

Ok, I'm going to leave the code backwards -- I added comments to indicate
it's inverted from the way the physics books all say it should be.

But, this leaves the entire idea of current flowing in wires causing them
to pull toether backwards from expectation.  The parallel flowign electons
have no effecvt on each other at all! And we can no longer argue that
the electons flowing in one wire is attracted the reverse current of
the postive ions. Because when we flip the sign, as I have just done,
it m eans it should push those away!

So, to accept this backwards sign, we require complex interaction between
the flowing electons and the atoms or the nutrons etc to justfity
how electo magnatism works -- to flip the magnetic sign produced by
the system!

Something like...  Electons in orbit, create a mag field one ay, that
is counteracging the mag field created by neturons?  And once they get
ripped out of orbit to flow from atom to atom, they stop their interaction
and allow the netron or protons they were balanacing, to dominate the
creation of the mag field which we attribute to the moving electons wbut
which is not actualy comming from the (slow moving electons) all?

So, the moving electons don't crfeate the field, making them move makes
them STOP creating the field they were creating?

Ok, something like that could be happening, but it's hard to grasp how
physics got this all so wrong and never noticed the error.

All the complexity has to be hidden in the orbital dymaics.

But them again, if my theories are correct, there is no particles smaller
than protons and electons, and the effect they call spin they attribute
to them is false -- again, something that is created by orbital dynamics
and not by the electon itself!

And if they have that wrong, basically evertyhing they think they
understand about atoms and particles is falwed.

----

What next.

Ok, trying to better understand how what I have coded works.

What if I rotate the axes, to force alignment  of r to the x axis.
Then ajdjust relative velcoiety to this new rotated axes.

Is the x compomnent of the velocity always pointless to the force
at this point?

Wait, even without rotation -- my test always has x aligned with
two particles. And haven't I already determined that x is not
pointless?

Oh, yes.  Right.

If we normalize the vecoeityh to have one particle standing still
and the other with all the motion, then that's the relative motion
vectgor. And what I think I understand now, is that the mag force
will always be perpendicular to that relative motion!

And the x axis velcoiety is significant to which way that vector
points so it will always be significant. There is never a velociety
dimension that is not significant.

But, when the velocoiety is stright togethe ror apart, the mag force
is zero. What is it when it's almost straight together?

----

[5:01 PM]

OPPPS...

I just relized what seems to be a problem here!  My thnking may have
been broken!

My current calcuation makes force independent of absolute velocity!
It's a function of only relative velociety.  But force defines how
velcoiety changes over time!  So a particle going 10 mph needs to have
a -force of 10m/s/s to make it stop in a fixed distance.  But a particle
going 20 mph needs twice the force to make it stop in the same distance!

This means, when we change our inertia frame of reference, we need to
change force to make the particle take the same path ???

Ah, but maybe I'm wrong about being wrong!  In the new frame the path
will be different if the speed changes but the force doesn't.  But since
we are in a different frame, the path needs to llook different, so that
it's absolute location is the same?

Ok, I think I need to stop and figure out if my thinking is correct or
not. If the forces are the same, do the particles take the same path in
location, no matter what inertia frame of reference we apply the force to?

Ok, some quick exmaples seems to prove me wrong about being wrong.

The fixed forces do mean that in the different frames, the paths will
look very different.  But once maped back to the same frame, the paths
will still be the same!

So fixed forces IS what we need and what we got with the current code!

I might not have proven this as strongly as needed, but it feels like
we are still on the right track.  So I'll ignore it but remember it
as a back burrner question if things don't work.

----

[5:44 PM]

Ok, so next idea.  Can we simplfy the code.

An intuitive understanding is emerging.  If I translate the velociety to
a frame where one particle is standing still, and all the velociety is
in the other. Then the force created will be perpendicular to that
velociety vector.  And if we project that velocity vector onto
the plane that is perpendicular to r, and divided by c, that is the force
vector relative to the ES force.  No, this is not correct...

Ok, so if we move V to one relative value, then Vx(Vxr) seems to be
the force vector direction.   lets work out the math.  We an assume
of the double mag vectors, we can just move the v to one, and consider
the other zero, and just calculate the one way to find the answer!

----

Ok, cool.  The total magnetic force reduces down to:

F = u0 / 4pi q1 q2 v X (v X r) / r^3

Sign determined by which way r points.  Sign I'm not sure of.  But the
"broken verion" I want to try has r pointing for other back to me.
But the book way, would suggest r should point to the other particle.

And note the prefect parallel with calucation of electostatic force as:

F = 1/(4 pi e0) q1 q2 / r^2

Which rewrites to:

F = u0 / 4pi q1 q2 c^2 r / r^3

Which means total force ES and MAG is something like:

F = u0/4pi q1 q2 / r^3 (c^2 r + v X (v X r))

And I feel the vXvXr is really just trying to factor out the first part
and leave what is left to be the magnetic field?  Or something like that?
I feel this can be reduced to something even simpler for total force.

c^2(1 - v^2/c^2) ???

c^2 - v^2 ???

Ok, let me play with that tomorrow.

Let me add this total force into the simlation and see what happens!

================================================================================

2016-09-26 11:06 AM Monday

Yesterday

1) Reduced calculation of mag force to one simpler formula by combining
code that calcuated it in both directions and sumed.  Found that there is
a very strong parallel to the electrostatic force formula.  But mag force
uses VxVxR of the two velociety vectors and electrostic vorce uses c^xr.
As if they were moving at the speed of light.

2) Struggled with sign of force.  Books all indicate it should add to the
ES force as the particles move faster.  Doesn't sound correct.  So I'm
experpimenting with flipping it so the mag acts against the the es force.

3) Added mag code to simulating!  And started some test runs.

Today

The 4 test runs have been running all night.  Three of them just have
4 particles each with two + and two -.  With mag force turned off,
they spread apart but settle into similar orbits.  But with average
KE of 33%/66% in the two electons but it's drifting up and down.  Of,
they tend to synchronize sort of.

With mag force on using inverted mag field, one electon flew off near
the start but in time, the two protons drifted apart and electon found
it's way back to the empty protron and set up orbits.  But the orbits
are fucking weird.  The electon falls to the proton, then shoots out at
a near 90 deg angle.  So then falls in and shoots back out the first way.
So it's an alternating 90 deg orbit.  I can't tell what happens when it's
close to the proton -- too close to tell.  Both pairs fell into this same
orbital pattern, and both pairs seem to have this pattern aligned with
each other. Energy balance is like 43/56 -- closer than without magnetic.

Due to the 3D nature of the simuation, I can't get a good read on
what these angles or orrientations arcually are on my 2D display.
Byut these are out of sync so when one is all the way out, the other at
near the proton.

---

Thrid simulation had mag force sign matching physics books -- which means
the mag force adds to the es force.  This caused one pair to fall into
a super faster orbit and take 99.9% of the energy of the system.  it's
velociety was >1e9 -- over the speed of light.  And, instantly inside the
RLimit of the simulation so it's racking up constant simulation errors.

This makes sense becaue the faster the orbit the more the two particles
will attract when the math works that way causing them to dive down into
the simulation error range.

Real live can't work this way unless there is some other effect to
offset it -- like relativity adjustments where the mass gets higher
and higher as it goes faster or something.  But I'm trying to find a
solution where relativity is an emergent property, not fundamental --
not codeded into my simulation.

The second pair are in a very slow orbit.  Due to the how fast the
simulation has to run for the first pair, I can't see how large the
second orbit is.  I'll hve to wait a long time.

--

A forth simulation had mag on and inverted sign.  5 p and 5 e.  They have
ended up for 4 in orbits, and one electon flying wild.  But the energy
split for the electons are 0.2/75/13/10/0.03 Which is odd becuase 4 seem
to be in close orbits not just 3.  I don't know which  is which.

But interstingly, the protons have not spread very far apart, they remain
clustered somewhet near the center of the screen. 0 inside Rlimit errors,
but 81 bounces.  Probably all electon bounces.  I should track ebounce
seprate from pBounce!

But now the energy is like 0/91/4/4/0  so it's drifting.  But looking
at the orbits of the 4 are close to being in sync.  Frequency of orbit
seems to be the same accurate to about 25%?  like 10hz vs 8 hz wild guess?

Maybe small difference in orbit make big difference in total energy now
when it is near the limit of what the system allows due to the speed
causing the orbit to come apart?

I think with this magnetic balancing effect it will limit the max speed
of the orbits allowing some to fall down to this lower limit, forcing
extra energy in the system to flow into one wild one?

Ah, but the wild one here has less energy?  WTF?  Could it be in an
orbit in that case?

Conservation of energy does strange things I have trouble understanding
since the spacing of particles also effects changein potential energy.
When things spread apart energy has to adjust.  But do matched pairs
basicall cancel out in that case?  I don't fully undestand.

energy is now 2/80/10/10/0 the last one is the wild one for sure.

Oh, and the orbits of this simulation do not show that odd 90 deg pattern
thta the two pair test is showing.  The orbits are normal.

But I wonder if this is a total energy issue -- not as much total energy
per pair so the orbits are forced to be larger?

Total energy in the system might make a real difference now that there
is an effect that changes with speed. Before, it seemed to make no difference
because the system was the same at all scales.  Simulations at 1/0000
angstroms worked the same as at 1000 angstroms.  Just ran faster or slower
per size but the patterns of behavior were the same at all scales.

But with this mag effect that gets stronger as we appraoch the speed of
light the patern of behavior will most certaonly change at that speed.

--

Also -- most the simluations running with the mag effect an inverted sign
stayed below the speed of light -- but the two particle one would just
go over it a bit when in the tighest part of teh obrit -- like 5e8 sort
of speed I think.

---

Time to make coffee. I've really cut back on my starbucks habit. And
i'm eating less.  Weight is down to 224 range from 230 range but
seems to be stuck in this range for now.  Need to get more exercise.
eating less doesn't help if you never get out of your chair and go
places and do things!


----

I don't understand this.  Two electrons from the simulation with 5 paris:

e8 vx:  2.67e+05  vy: -1.29e+06  x:   5.12300 A  KE: 22.94%

e9 vx: -2.46e+05  vy:  1.62e+06  x:   5.56936 A  KE:  0.02%

Their speed in x and y are nearly identical, with e5 and e6.  But the
kenetic energy is 22.94 vs 0.02???  The smaller KE one is the one electon
that is flying free.  Output doesn't show vz.  So that might be part of
it. But all 5 of the electons have this same pattern of spee din the e5
vs e6 range, but yet total KE is so different?  How can speed be on unit
of magnatude different and KE by 3 units of magnatude different? Well,
it is mv^2.  Maybe that v^2 is the real issue here.

Maybe showing relative velocity difference would be more useful?

Or, monumtum!

----

And now the weakest electon of the 5 pair test has gone into a higher
orbit that's 10x maybe larger radius than others.

Well, lots to play with here.  But I want to get back to the basics of
the formulas before getting too distracted on orbital dynamics.

First, quick mode for eBounce vs pBounce counts!

----

[2:22 PM]

added eBounce and pBounce.  Then got lost on facebook and email.

Another quick hack idea.  Fix monuntum after a bounce to return system
to zero.

----

Ok made call to reset monumtum to zero after every bounce.  Monumtum now
hangs around the e-36 level (16 digits below total energy).

----

Running a test with 6 protons 1 electon. The 1 electon seems to be holding
toether two of the protons while the rest fly apart.  Wonder how long
it will hold them together?  That's the sort of careful testing that
will need more attention later.

But I want to return to the concepts and formulas for a while first.

It's unknown (to me) if these new magnetic forces are messing up total
energy!

Does the trade off between potential and kentic still apply now that
we have forces based on speed not just distance?  Potential energy is
cauclauted using distance which is what defines the force.

My error corfrecting code is keep total energy fixed, but it could be
breaking the system in process.

A way to test effects to turn off the error correction and see how fast
errors add up with magnatism turned on or off.

The entire error correction appraoch might be invlaid now.  Or might
need something more complex to account for the magnetic potential energy?

The idea that magnatism can't do work, I think is invalid.  If it can do
work, then I think we should have an energy problem. If in the end, it can't
do work, we should be OK.

----

Ok, a little thinking makes it clear we have a problem with total energy.

The magenetic force is most certainly not always 90 deg to the r vector.
Which means it's doing work. Wait, is that correct?  It most certainly
is correct that the mag force is not 90deg to r, but is that important?

Mag force is 90 deg to velociety vectory all the time.  But the matching
opposit force that must also be applied, is doing work.

Ok, if we don't apply matching opposit force, then we lose conservation
of monentum in the system.  And taht can't be true. There's no way the
magnetic forces and blantely violate conseration of momentum.

But, it can all change in subtle ways under relativity.  Which I still
don't grasp.

So far, I don't understand how relativity falls out of EM.

So, far, I seem to have equations that hold true under newtonian truths.

And, interstingly, the electons have trouble going faster than the speed
of light in orbits under these rules -- but some seem to have managed
a short stent above the speed of light.

Ok, faling to understand relativity or where it comes from still, lets
shift attention.

Why on earth is the speedof light so strongly wired into these equations!

How the fuck did that happen?  How did it happen that the electrostaic
force equation is:

ma = f = c^2 1e-7 q1 q2 rHat / d^2

Since the second basically comes from earth roation and meter is just a
random humnan sized measure, the only thing that is left to explain how
c got into this equation is that it must be part of how charge is defined.

The unit of charge must be defined in terms of the speed of light.
if 1/c was the fundamental charge unit, this would fit the two q1 12
charges matching against c^2.  But odly not as easilly against the 1e7
becuase that forces a sqrt(10) factor into the unit of charge as well.

But why was that done?  let me see if I can find something to help me
understand this.

----

So, coulumb is defined in terms of current. They say. And current is
defined in terms of magnetic force needed to create one Newton of force
on two wires one meter apart, each carring one amp of current.

Newton is the defined f=ma from the defintion of kg and m.  So it's a
constant that falls out of the innate inerta of mass, and how it reates
to time and and space (who's units are randomly chosen for human scale
convence).

So then this innate measure of inerta, is used to define current, that
ends up defining charge.

So units of charge falls out of inerta of matter in the unviese and how
it relates to the correlation between magnatic force and innerta force.

Or, how a moving charge, makes a mass move..

But it's not a moving charge. It's how a current in wire makes a mass
move!

Then somehow, this same unit of force was used to measure how a static
charge makes a mass move though the electostatic charge.

Fuck. Now I really wonder if anyone actulaly knows how a moving charge
makes matter move!  Maybe all they really know how how an electic
current makes matter move!

But they do know how a static charge moves matter!  That we can measure.

--

Did I take my vitmans this morning?  Shit, I don't think I did, but yet
I'm not sure?  I'm going to take them again.  But maybe I need a better
way to track this!

Will start recoding in my notes when I'm workong on notes!

Just now took them. [5:47 PM]!

--

Ok, back to units mystery.

So newton, it the force needed to make on kg change in speed by 1 m/s in
1 second.  So it's a fundamental apsect of nature based how mass reponses
to force but defined in the arbitray units of kg/m/s

Then from there, we come up with current, as a funamental aspect of how
mass motion responds to current flow.  But how current makes mass move doesn't
have to be how force makes mass move.  But we are linking the two
on the assumption that everthing that makes mass move should be the same
units.  And we throw in 1 meter of wire, into the mix randoly as well.

So we have current defined as how much current flow in one meter of wire
is needed to make mass act the same.

and current is charge past a point.  But that doesn't tell us how much
charge is in one meter.  We don't know how fast the charge is moving.

So one A is defined in terms of force.  And a C is an Amp second.

So amps are electons per second -- with units adjusted to be in terms
of kg/m/s N.

So it relates to how moving electons in a wire makes mass move in this
special 1 m vs infinite wire configuration.

of electons or measure of the charge of one electon?  Ah, no, it's really
just the measure of the NUMBER of moving electons.

So C is just a count of electon, but in units that relate to how this many
moving electrons, in this 1m vs ifnite m set up, creates the same force
that makes 1N worth of change in movement.

Or, it measures one electon, as the force it creates when it's part of
1 amp of current flow in 1 meter of wire in both directions.

But them oddly, the static force equation falls out from all this as:

ma = f = c^2 1e-7 q1 q2 rHat / d^2

The fact that we can define c using force in current flow terms, and then
it falls out like this in static force, means that static charge force and
moving charge force are highly connected to each other for some reason.

Oh, wait.  q is A s.  It's the number of electons that pass a point in
ONE SECOND.  So we use one second to define q.  And F is kg m / s^2. There
might be a possiblity of seconds used in force to cancel out with seconds
used in c.  Maybe. I don't know.

Lets look at units and see what we can find

ma = f = c^2 1e-7 q1 q2 rHat / d^2
kg m/s s = f = m/s m/s 1e-7 A s A s / m^2
kg m/s s = f = 1e-7 A^2 

So, A is sqrt(kg m/ss) if I got this right.  WTF???

Maybe taking out c as m/s is invalid since these are constants and not
vairbales in the equation.

So that changes to:

kg m/s s = f = A s A s / m^2
kg m^2 / s^4 = A A
sqrt(kg) m / s^2 = A

Still WTF teritory.

What if substite in e=mc^2 or c^2 = e/m 

ma = f = c^2 1e-7 q1 q2 rHat / d^2
ma = f = e/m A s A s / m^2

And e is kg m^2/s^2 so:

ma = f = kg m^2/s^2 /m A s A s / m^2
ma = f = kg /m A A
kg m/s^2 = f = kg / m A A.
m/s^2 = /m A A
m^2/s^2 = A A

A = m/s

This is cleaner.  But still WTF!

If A is m/s and q = A s them q is m.

None of this makes any sense.

So, we have the simple fact that current in a wire creates force.

And, that static build up of charge, creates force.

When we try to xplain these two different effects, as one, what falls
out is speical relativity as a very odd way of tying these two different
things together.

But yet, general relativity, that falls out from that, explains much
other things as well in the univese.  Like gravity making light "bend".
And famisly, e=mc^2.

Ok, so wait, I've spoted what must be an energy problem with my total
energy conservation code based only on kenetic and potential energy since
magnetic force is changing kenetic energy but not measured in potential
energy of distance.

I still need to verify this is a problem however.

But, could we add mc^2 as a measure of magnetic potential energy to fix
it?  Or something like this?  Or, if because all velociety are relative
in how I've coded it, might all the changes in potential energy in the
system all cancel each other out?  So that our addition of magnatism
didn't create an energy problem?  It might work out that way.

Oh, here's a thought.  Even though the speed of electons in a wire is
very slow compared to the speed of light, the information they carry is
moving near the speed of light.  So the flow of kenetic energy might be
moving thtough the wire at near the speed of light!

So, if the basic inerta of f=ma effect, cuase the flow of kenetic energy
to move at the speed of light though systems of particles, like the
elctons and ions of the wire, this this flow of kenetic energy can be
the foundation of em force.  And when they are able to trade off qv and
I in the magnetic field equations as if they were the same.

E=mc^2 is not 1/2 m v^2.  But A is current flowing in opposit directions
in two wires.  Could that make it 2x the energy and turn 1/2 mv^2 into
mc^2????

----

Ok, rereading magnatism stuff, I think I've spoted something I failed
to understand in the past.

Moving currents don't just create the magnetic field. They also create a
change to the electic field!  But it's the change in the magentic field
that creates the electic field.

Ok, not sure if I've really coded that correctly!

----

Oh oh.  A current flow causes a buildup of charge (push N electons in a
second past a point).  And that build up, cause them to push all these
other electons down the wire -- which adds up to a stransfer of kenetic
energy down stream.  But the speed at which it can force others to get
out of the way is controlled by basic relationsips of electostic force
and inertia.

And if my thinking that the speed at which force can turn into motion
is what sets the speed of light limit in the sytem -- the speed at
which kenetic energ can move through a field of particles...  This is
how current in a/s can translate to velociety concepts -- the buildup
in charge caused by the current only "unwinds" into actual motvation,
at a fixed speed regulated by the speed of light.

This is not preceise, but it's sort of grasping at starws approach
to undesetanding how current can be related to cv in a magnetic field
equation.

A charge build up, in effect translates itself into cv -- charges moving
per speed of light effects.

Is there any chance that current cuases a voltate drop that cuases a
changing charge dinsity over the wire that in the end explains magnetic
attraction as changes to charge density.  No, it doesn't look like that
works out correctly at all.

----

Not only is the use of c^2 in the em force equation just odd as fuck
the e-7 is equallky odd as fuck. Where the fuck did THAT come
from???

But it has to have something to do with how moving particles affect
each other vs how stationary particles affect each other.  The relationshp
of this is tied othe 

Ah, but fuck no.  Because magnetic field equation and static force equation
both have the same e-7 factor in it.  So it's part of the unit conversion
problem somehow.

ah, more later.  Food now.  Debate soon. In minutes.

================================================================================

2016-09-27 10:03 AM Tuesday

Yesterday

1) Lots of thought about the very foundational evidence of electro
magnatism.  Trying to understand how on earth the speed of light shows up
as a fundamental constants in the force equation.  And how the magnatism
equation I've derived for use with particles is a perfect mirror of
the static force equation. Why are these two the same yet describe
very different physical effects?  And how on earth can qv be the same
as I (current) in magnetic field equations?  I is electons/second not
electon m/s?

Today

More thinking.  First debate between Hillary and Trump was last night.
I could only watch a few minutes before I couldbn't take it any longer.
Trump was just being Trump, looking for ways to insult Hillary, proposing
tax cuts to help create jobs, trickle down stupidty, and being a goon.
Hillary was just running though talking points.  I can't stand to watch
the games or the stupidity of Trump.

Physics

Ok, in the magnetic field equations, I'm finding sites that talk about
the current equations being current times DL time a "charge density"
factor. Now that is making more sense!  or the internal of current times
DL.  That does turn it into electons per meter/s that matches qv.

Ok, on the Lorentz Force wikipedia page, it's saying the force is:

F = qE + qv x B

Which is basically what I'm using sort of.  With the question of what the
correct sign of B is in the particle case and with the qustion of how
to measure velociety to calcuate B and how to calcuate total force on
the two particles.

But it's saying that there is another form of the equation needed to
adjust for reltivity effects when the particle is moving near the speed
of light.

So, my thought then, is whether all this relativity stuff is emergent
from the field of interacting particles (I suspect it could be), or
whether it's fundamental.  So at the macro level we need relativistic
adjustments to explain how the field of interacting particles behavior,
but at the mirco level, we don't.  The books imply it's all fundamental
and is needed at the micro level.  But I'm not sure if this is true.

Or rewriting:

F = q(E + v x B)

fMag = 1e-7 q1 q2 v X v X rHat / d^2

fEs  = 1e-7 q1 q2 c^2   * rHat / d^2

Oh, later on the page:

F = Il x B

Current times length!  And if the length standard is 1 meter, guess
what happens?  It becomes F = I x B!  Ok, this is making more and more
sense now.  That might not be true. But it's possible.

And, many questions that were confusing me were acxtually current DENSITY
equeations and not Current equations.  And produced force DENSITY answers,
not force.

I don't understand the math still but I'm getting a little better picture
of what was confusing me.

Oh, this looks interesting and important....  Talking about forces
between two moving chagres!

http://newt.phys.unsw.edu.au/einsteinlight/jw/module2_FEB.htm

It says if you run with two electons in each hand, the electrostaic force
will push them apart. But the magnetic force will PULL THEM TOGETHER!

I course, I reject the idea that there is an magnetic force when they move
in parallel.  But it's intersting he thinks the mag force is operating
OPPOSIT to the electrostaic force!

And Kes / Kmag - 1/u0e0 must have units of speed squared!

Where V0 = sqrt(1/u0e0)

"So what is v0? If you have studied waves, the format of this expression
may seem familiar. The speed of a wave is given by:"

Vwave = sqrt(elestic paramter / inertial or density parameter)

For waves in string, or water, etc.

So he's making an anology between how the speed of a wave is determined
in media with how Kes and Kmag related to each other to define the speed
of electrostiact waves!  Which explains how the fuck c^2 shows up in these
equations!  It's the NATRUAL SPEED in fields of particles connected
by the fucking electrostic force!

So this alone, says a lot about the fact that this is the force that
makes waves move at the fucking speed of light through this medium!
Or at least it MIGHT be saying that!

fEs  = 1e-7 q1 q2 c^2 * rHat / d^2

Which is what I've been suspecting was a truth about where the speed of light
really comes from.  Not a truth about how particles interact at the micro
level, but a truth about how a field of particles can pass a wave!

Then it goes on to say total froce reduces to:

F = Felec(1 - v^2/c^2)

Where Felect he defined as what I are using, q^2/4pie0 r^2.
And Fmag is what I am using u0/4p q^2 v^2/r^2

And using F mag as an adjustment to F elect, he subtracts the two (instead
of adding them)

F = Felect - Fmag

Then rewrites as:

F = Felect(1 - Fmag/Felect)

Fmag/Felect is:

[u0/4p q^2v^2/r^2] / [q^2/4pie0 r^2]

Which reduces to:

u0/e0 v^2

And since c^2 = 1/u0e0
u0 = 1/e0c^2 = 4pi e-7
e0 = 1/u0c^2 = 1 / 4pi e-7 c^2

u0/e0 = 1 / c^2

Ok, so the Fmag/Felect becomes:

v^2/c^2

which gets us to:

Ftotal = Felect(1 - v^2/c^2)

Ftotal = Felect / y^2

Where y = 1/sqrt(1 - v2/c2)

Which of course that y crap is the lorentz contration factor.

Which all falls out, of the basic static formuals, not relativity adjusted!
At least informally.

But, this isn't dealing with any of the real complexity of direction of force
addressed by v x (v x r)

But it does agree with my instinct that mag force must act AGAINST static force!
even though signs from standard foremula sseem to indicate otherwise to me.

But, it gives me some hope that I can combine the force equeations to something
simpler that defines how force isn't as strong under motion???  is this how
arodynamics works?

Also..

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biot%E2%80%93Savart_law

But the below is only true for v << c:

e = 1/4pi e0 q   r/r^3 b = u0/4pi   q v r/r^3

The more complex version has v^2/c^2 and sin^3 theta etc.

Oh, more interesting ideas.  Magnatic field thought of as spin -- vortex
of spinning charges.  As current in a loop.

Linear motion of charge creates a votex hence the idea of a circulare
magenetic field around a wire.

But constant current in a straight wire won't enduce (vortex) current in
a coil around it!  Only if the current is changing will there be induced
current in the coil around it!

----

Ok, all intersting exploration.

Ok, another thought I had this morning.  Electons in a wire move very
slow.  But the logical information flow is near the speed of light.
Could this information flow (the wave speed) be inportnt in how the
wires attrct, or is it the real speed?

Multiple places say it's the real speed of the electons.  And though
it's slow, the loreze relatively attraction of the slow moving elctrons
creates enough chagne in force to create gravity.

So, it's the electons slow motion relativie to the ions that create the
magnateiv force of current flow!

Ok, so electons moving past protons, pull together. But that's fucking
backwards since electons and protons already pull together! Ugh.

In the frame of reference of the electons, the protons shirnk together,
and attaract us.  In the frame of reference of the protons, the electons
shrink, and still cause attraction!

Ah, but if we invert all this, and claim nothing is shrinking, and all
that is happening is that electons and protons change their attraction
under motion, we have to say they attract MORE under relative motion
to explain wires being pulled together.

But what if the motion of the electrons, changes the magnetic proprty
of the atoms in the wire?  And that change, is what causes the wires
to attract?  So the atoms act like little randomely allined magenets.
The motion of the electons then forces the magenets to align, and that
alignment is what pulls the wires together?

Or, the motion of electons in one wire, changes the magenets in the
other wire?  (in the same wire it's too chatoc and cancles out?)

But this would be true no matter which way the electons move.  So it
must mean the motion of electons in the other wire are also needed to
allow the magenets in that wire to align?  I'm running wild here with
made up stuff stories...  In case it wasn't obvious.

--

From another direction -- the reason two electomagnets attract is beause
their N and S poles match up.   Which we can see as the same thing
at work when two wires attract when the current flows the same way in
both. Adding an iron core makes them stronger, in theory because the
magnetic field makes the magenets in the iron core change alightment --
or it's described as the iron core attracing MORE lines of flux into it.
But it's an obviouss alightment effect.  I think.

---

Another thoughts.  If electomatic field move though fields of particles
in waves, then these waves will of course interact with each other over
time and we can explain all the talk about changing e making changing
b and visa vers -- but only at the macro level of waves moving though
feields of particles!  Not at the micro level of to particles interacting.

So all the complex maxell equations based on density and change
over time might only really apply directly to field of particles, not
individual particles.  I'm continusing to feel this could be a true and
valid argument.

So I'm searching to understand what the fundamental interaction needs
to be to create these wave effects.

It seems from that math above that C can be explained in terms of basic
electrostic interaction with mass and inertia.  No magnatism needed.
But is there any conceviable way to explain magnatism at the macro level,
using only electrostic at the micro?  I don't think so.

Ok, so we have resobnale questions about what GENERATES a magnetic field
but we don't have any doubt they exist, and that a single electon will
take on a circular motion though it.  How could a single electons be
forced tohave it's path bent into a circle, if the only things in the
other material generating the effect, was electrostatic force?  So we
have something like electrostatic force moving in circles. I see now
way to explain why that would make the distant electon bend in it's path.

An electon in a orbit around a proton, spinning in a tight cirucle, will
not bend the distant electon path

An electon in a orbit around a proton, spinning in a tight cirucle, will
not bend the distant electron path only because of electostatic force.

Could it somehow get all the surounding particls to help?  Could magnatism
be an emergent effecdt of a field of interacting particles and not
fundamenal some how?

At best, I'll I'm grasping, would be the power of the field to make the
electon vibrate along with all the little orbits, not curve.

So I'm still feeling there needs to be force related to motion of reative
particles to exlain this.

Yes, a perminate magnet can't really magnatise the air to call int into
helping making the electon spin.  As far as I can grasp.  It could,
but air unlike iron, seems to be mostly immune to such help.

Ok, it's a well documented beleif that elctrons have a dipole moment as
an intrisnsic propety -- that they are small point magnets. But my project
here is attempting to explain that using orbits and motion instead.

But, checking the spin experiment, the particles deflect N to S, not
the same as left to right in the field due to charge. They use charge
nutrual atoms, to prevent that -- and see the magenetic effect of the
atom instead!

So if you throw magenets through a magent field, you would expect
deflection up and down! Ok, that makes sense.  But the spin experment
showed quanization effects which is key of course to quantum mechans
notion of quantized spin.

Ok, so charge bending in motion is 90 deg to magnetics bending in magnetic
fields. I get that.

But, a spinning electon, would create a magenetic field alone it's
spin axes, which makes other electons moving perpendicular to the
mag field spin bend into a circult, like the electron is spining!

So a spinning electon makes others spin in parallel planes.  But which
way does it make it spin?  The same, or opposit?  Must be opposit.
If it made it spin the same way, then entire univese would quickly
line up.  And if it makes it spin the opposit way, that justifies
conservation of angular momentum in the system.

Ok, so lets check out right hand rules and current. Postive current in
a right hand rule, creates a N pole at the thumb.

Yes, so an electon spinning one way. tries to force other electon to
spin the opposit.

This is also consistent with the idea that electomagnets, induce currents
in other coils, that counteract the magnetic field.  Though, induction
requires change in fields???

But you know, that doesn't make sense.  A magnet moving in a coil will
induce current will it not?   Isn't it just relative motion that is
important really?

Ah, but motion induces current/force that opposes the magenet and becomes
table. Only changing magnetic field allows oppising force to chnage and
opposing current to change!

So we have a force motion relation that creates all the stuff at work
here?

The motion of one, creates FORCE on the other, but if force is balaced
it won't create motion.

---

Ok, here's an idea.  I can test to see if my code as written works!

I can create a fake electro magnet by forcing a collection of electons
into matching orbits to represent the current of an electro magenet.
No matching postive ion atoms, just the electons. Then I let another
electon fly through the field at the end and see how it acts! maybe.
Could try that.  But if the rason electon magenets work, is the complex
interaction of the atoms not just the moving elctrons, then this wouldn't
work.

But still, something in the magenet or electomagenet has to cause the
electon to cir4ucle in the magenet field.  So we must be able to to set
up something in the "fake" magenet to cause this if we have the right
funamental force laws correct!

In theory, if all we had was one magenet, and only one electon flying
past it the electron (in a true vacuum otherwise) should bend it's
path perpendicular to the motion.  Can the mag force I have coded every
cause that????

Maybe it would need a magenet above and below to create anything close
to a uniform magenet field to create true spinning trapped between
the two magnets?

Or, what about a ring of protons spinning one way and a ring of electons
spinning the other in the same location?  So the toal electomagenetic
force would mostly cancle out?  Leaving only mag force differences?

And a electon moving one way would attract while a proton moving the
other would likeise attract!  Where as moving the same way would
cancel out any magnetic effect.  Making one side of the ring attactice
a moving election and the other repel. Or even one electon standing
still will be attracted to one side and repeled from the other.
But as it starts to move relative to the spinning rings, things could
change.

No, wait, wouldn't both sides equally attract an electon standing still?

NO, my logic is all wrong.  A moving proton pushes an electon away.
Makes no difference which way it moves.  A moving electon attracts an
electon, makes no difference which way it moves.  So opposit spinning
rings will cancel each other out -- relative to an electon standing
still.

But if the electon moves in parallel with the spnning electons, then
the electons will stop having magnetic attraction, and the protons
will have double strong magnetic repeling.

Or, if it moves in parallel with the protons, the electons will attract
while the protons don't.

But, without pure distributed charge, it won't all perfectly cancle out.
As an electon and proton cross below and separate, the moving electon
will attract, and the moving proton will repel.  But they will do
just the oppsit as they apporach ehach oher -- so it will cancele
out.

So what if the protons were standing still, and the electons moving in
a circle?  Would it require the electon to start to circulate at
half the rotationsal speed to balance the effects?  With the electon
standing still, it will have no magnetic foce with the protons, but
the moving electons would attract it.  This is all based on my backwards
sign logic of course -- that electons flying past each other attract
which is the inveser of their static repelling force.


So, if the electon is on the edge, it's attracted to the electons
on the same edge, but also equally to the ectrons on the far edge
so it wwould try to move across the circule to the other side I would
think. But as it pickes up speed, it would interact with the two
sides.  The electons moving with it, the attraction would reduce.
And the increse in relative motion to the prtons, would make it repel.
This moves it away from the side were electons are moving the same
way.  And for the other side, the speed with the electons incrase
and attract more, and the protons increase by same amount and
repel more. Wait this seems to cancel out. Why didn't it cancle out
the same on the other side?

ep speed increases, replels more.  ee speed reduces, attracts less

yes, I think my logic is broken. The motion relative to the sides will
not cause  any movement either way.

Wait, fuck hold it.

ep speed increases, replels more.  ee speed reduces, attracts less repel
more and attract less means repel MORE total.

And on other side.  ep speed increases, repeles more. ee speed INCREAES
so attacts MORE.  That blances out no change on right side, more repel
on the left, so we push to the left.

That means we start to move in the same direction as the electons!
Not the opposit direction!

Ok, so it looks like there is some potenital here for the mageneti field
I've coded to cause some spinning.  But it's all related to the speed
of the atoms relative to each other.  So if the spinning magenet would
have to be moving faster than the electon being pushed around I think.
Maybe. It's too complex.

I think it might be cool to code this test.  Force a collection of e and p
into a circulare spinning path, and let another e free to see what happens
to it!  Becuaes, honestly, I can't figure it out in my head.  But it
looks like there is potential for the magnetic effects to create some
intersting resutls when we cancel out the electostatic with matched paris.

Or, set up a line of protons, with electons orbiting around them, but
fix the protons in place so they can't move.

Ok, but in this, a free electon, next to a "wire" with fixed protons
and current moving electons, will be attracted to the wire! The electro
static will bebalanced but there is no magenetic with the prtons since
they are in the same motion as the electon, and the moving electons will
attract the electron!  That is not correct based on expectations.

---

And, no answer  to why simple current in a wire works to pull two
wires together using my inverted field.  The implications of the lorentz
contration argument is that elctrons flying past protons will attract
more.

Could there be something with holes moving the other way?  Holes move
at the speed of light while electrons move very slow.  Wait, so what if
current flow creates holes?  Making a net postive charge in the wire?
By forcing the electons to spread out?  What if there can't be free
electons in a wire, but only free holes where electons have been pulled
out of an atom?  What if free electons would only free out into space
if they were injected into a netural charge wire?  Ah, but no, electic
charge can build up.  So it is possible...

Doing reserach on ions, -- learn that atoms with new extra slots in
outer shell like to suck up extra electons and form negative ions.
Iron and coper that are good conductors have 2 or 1 electons in outer
shell so they give it up easilly and form ostive ions (holes).

---

Just makes me realize how little I know about chemisty and atoms which is
funny since my work here is trying to argue we need to better understand
atoms! There is much we do know, that I've not learned about.

But, if iron and metals connect by losing electons and forming holes
then current should maybe turn the wire net postive?  but the two net
postive wires would push apart not pull together.  And logically if it
could be seen that way, electrons electons flowing one way and holes
flowing the other, will still repel by my formula.

But electrons taking a fast jump from one atom to another, will move
very fast then slow down.  Maybe.  But no, attraction is qv so the
total attraction is the sum of all qv so the averge speed can be used to
estimate total attraction and small jumps don't creaet some v^2 effect
to create super attraction.

So none of this is making much sense.

All wire effects seem to be backwards from what would make more sense
in nature between particles that the motion woldn't add more attraction,
but would redeuce it or change it's direction.

But, if it's inverted, then not not X creates X.  It has the power to
chain double negatives to create a postive.  In abstract theory. Where
as when forces only add, it can't ever do plus plus to create a negative.

So I can just go back to the the argument that "something unknown that
is complex creates a double negative effect when current flows in wires"
that ends up making the wires attract!

Well, electrons moving past protons will repel in my way, which can
justify skin effect? no...

Ah, skin effect is only caused by alternating currents and is greater
with higher frequency.  Caused by circular edit currents.  It seems.

Which tryes to conteract the current in the middle of the wire but not
the outer edge.

Still can't make any of this add up!

Ugh.

all the web sites talk as if this is all obvious and the formauls are
all well known.  But none talk about trying to simluate electon orbits.

Electron Orbital Motion

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HHSluoPqank

The above is trying to visual quantum mechanic orbital models using
density tricks or something...

Certainly, there is a deep knoweledge of atomic orbits.  Why can't they
be calucated as actual classical mecahancs orbits created by particle
interaction!

Is the particle to particle interaction more complex somehow?

================================================================================

2016-09-28 10:52 AM Wednesday

Yesterday

1) Lots of deep thinking about why the equations are how they are.
And trying to understand if the magnatism forumal is correct.

2) Found this fascinating page:

http://newt.phys.unsw.edu.au/einsteinlight/jw/module2_FEB.htm

That shows the connection between u0 and e0 and how similar physical
paramaters define the speed of a wave in strings or air!

In other words, this is eactly why the speed of light is in the
EM equation!  It's the relationship between inerta and force that
defines how fast waves move through the medium (field of particles),
And the reason no other factor is in there is exactly because charge
is defined from current, and current is defined as the amount of moving
charge needed to create 1 N of force!  I'm still a little lost on where
ei-7 comes from, but the fact c^2 is in there is explained now.

The same page implies mag force should be seen as an adjustment to
the E force and SUBTRACTED -- as I have done in my formual but which
is backwards from all others.  And when you do that and simplify, the
Lorenz factor falls out as 1/sqrt(1-v2/c2).

That's two cool clues.  Even if neither are hard facts.

So the implication is that the lorentz factor is how magnatism created by
motion adjusts electrostic force.  But yet, this still doesn't explain
electro magnatism corectly at the atomic level as far as I can grasp.

3) Ended the day feeling lost.  All my thoughts about how these force
equations would actually explain why electomagnatism works in my simuation
seems to fail.  And there is much known about atomic orbitals that I
don't yet understand that is all key to this as well.  The deeper I dig
the more I feel I don't understand.  And nothing seems to be pointing
in the right direction yet to a solution that works.

4) Had the idea of hard coding an electro magnet as roating circles
of electons and protons in the simulation where they moved by defintion
in perfect circles and not under simulation control. Would other free
particles than intract with them to show magnetism like effects?

Today

1) Instead of trying to code particle magnatism from the known laws of
magnatism, I can try to attack from the other direction.  Try to guess
what the particle froce equations need to be, to make macro level
magnatism show up.

2) Oh, and, do my current force equations throw off total energy?  I think
they likely do.  Which means my "energy adusting" code is BREAKING what the
magnatism code is trying to do!  So maybe I just need to turn off the
energy adjusting code and see how the particles interact?

----

So, I tried to code magnetic force of two particles and came up with
a formula that seems mostly consistent with documented formulas of
magnatism.  But I had to play games with frame of inertia when calucating
magenetic field and I choose to invert the sign to make motion reduce
force, instead of increase it.  And try as I might, I can't logically
deduce how electromagnatism could possibly fall out of this atomic
particle behavior.

And fixing the sign, only seems to make it worse.  It causes orbiting
particles to fall into tighter and tighter orbits. I think.  I relly
need to turn the energy adjust off and see what it does.

So, maybe a better approach is to just understand the basic behavior of
electomagnatism and then reverse eneringe and FIND the particle force
laws that make it work!

So, here's a thought I had in bed.  When we have a loop of curent,
is the flux density inside the loop the same everywhere?  Does it work
like gravity inside a body or charge inside a body where the magnetic
field is constant everywhere inside the loop?

It seems to me this needs to be "inside a sphere" with the 1/x2 rule
instead of inside a loop.  But if it's consitent everywher inside a
loop, then that's a simple way to create a constant magenetic field,
and a charged particle inside the loop needs to zip around in a cirle
on it's own!  That would be something to try and duplicate by thinking

I do understand that integrating the current around the loop and intergrating
the flux over the surface does create some identiy in magnatism.  Meaning
the total flux a  related to the current.  But I supsect the flux density
is not constant.

----

http://newt.phys.unsw.edu.au/einsteinlight/jw/module3_Maxwell.htm

Another fun page from this same site.

It points out that if you make e0 and u0 1, and adjust other units like
time to fix that, maxwels qustions become perfectly symmetical.  But
also include magnetic "charge"nd manetic flux densty terms that in
our univese seem to be zero and aren't normally included beaues they
are zero.

Which shows some strange and wonderful symmetry between electic field and
magnetic fields and space and time.  Even if I don't fully understand
what it is.

The same page once again points out that the constants in the qeustion
work out ot be the speed of light.  And seems to say that when the
constants were first worked o ut imperically, it was recognized that they
macthed the speed of light -- which is what lead to the understanding
that light was a wave like radio waves and part of the same effect!

I guess they didn't know the speed of radio waves were the same as the
speed of light at the time?

To me, this says there's something even simpler we are missing
underneith it.

----

Ideas for how magforce might work?

A) Maybe motion just changes the strength of the electostic force and doens't
change it's direction.  So relative motion makes it strong or weaker?
as if it were closer or further away?  Like lorentz contraction?

But the idea that the force might drop to zero at the speed of light bothers
me.  The speed of light falls out of the relationshipo between inerta and
force.  To me that says we should NOT be coding the speed of light into
the fundamental behavior itself -- making it drop to zero at that speed.
If it had some effect that worked like that, what we coded at the fundamental
level would be something else... I would expect.

But if motion made it stronger, then we would not be coding the speed of light.

B) Maybe motion changes the direction of the force but not it's strength?

C) Maybe motion ONLY changes the force perendicular to r?  (not perpendicular
to to direction of motion?)

----

1/2 cup creamer.  35 cal per tablespoon.  8 tablespoons in half cup. 280 cals
in each cup of coffee I drink.  Ouch.  Or 300 ish calories.
I need to learn to use less...  I drink 2 to 4 cups of coffee a day these
days.

----

Why no magnetic monopoless! Becase we have no particle that gives off
a static magnetic field without motion!  And when a particle in motion
gives off a magnetic field, it creates equal and oppost fields!

So, motion creates force -- and we call that force "a magenetic field"
And that motion ties together time and space.

Without motion induced force, all we have is static foce, that ties
together space and force, which ties to inerta and motion.

To mantain conservation of energy and monumtum, we need motion induced
force to be equal and opposit. This seems fundamental. Otherwise, it feels
as if we would he creating a free energy source which electicy is not.

All this feels like it's adding up correctly.  But the only question
remains is how to correctly map motion into force!

Does it matter?  If we map motion to force can any smooth mapping work
as long as we mantain symmetry?

Ah, but the symetry of maxwells equations makes me think the maping is
not arbitary.  That there is some clean and obvious answer to how motion
changes force. If it were arbiaty it would break the symetry.

Maxwells equtions when it shows the symetry between electic and magnetic
is also showing an underlying beauty between force and motion and distance
and time.  How to turn this around to see it?

It's as if there must only be one way to link these together to create
this symmetry.

And I'm not buying this warped space crap. 

--

What if force inverts, if motion is faster than the speed of light?
Through the looking glass sort of interesting.  But WHY would it
inverst AT the speed of light?  I can't justify just hard coding
it that way. I can't justfiy coding force based on v2/c2.  I have
to find a stronger simpler underlying justification to exlain
why it works this way.

--

Without magnatism, we have space defining force defining change
to momentum. Or, space defining change to motion.

What about motion defining change to space as an inversion?
(fuck I didn't want to do that!)

But a more simple view, is motion defining change to motion
as well.

Or, how space changes motion, is a function of what the motion is.

Or, how much one particle can push another is limited by the
motion of the particles.  It can't push as hard on a moving
object?

--

Why does lift work?  That's an effect where moving fluid can't
push as hard.  Why does it work?

---

On a NASA lift descritpion web page.  F=ma is f=m dv/dt.  Which tells us
force creates change in velcoiety, but also reading backwards, chagne in
velocity creates FORCE!  It tells us that the two must match.  It doesn't
really have a direction as much as what it says, say in our model,
is that path of the particles must satisfy the equalty of f=m dv/dt.

So, magnatism tells us this is not the right path, so that's not the
right equalty. Or at least not the full story.

A charged particle circling in a magenetic field tells us there is
acceleration that is 90 deg to the motion.

I feel like the motion of particles in the magenet has to be creating
this magnetic field effect. But the motion of the particles has to be
creating a constant effect unrelated to the speed of motion?  Or the
speed of motion in the magenet defines the strength of the effect?
Yeah, motion creates force. That's consistent.

----

I need to find a few basic math physics answers.  If I have a circule
of particles, what's the static force in the middle?  Constant for all
positions or does it change by position?  Test code time.

----

Why presure drops in fluid when it moves faster!  The answer is that
the drop in pressure is what MAKES it move faster!  Or if there wasn't
a drop it wouldn't be moving faster.  This falls out of a conservation
of energy equation aka Bernoulli's equation.

---

What if there was a conservation equation at work here in particles
related to electromagnatism.  That seems almost like it has to be true.

Ok, but we already have potential + kenetic = constant.  That's because
the force created by distance is traded off for kenetic energy.  So that's
why these define the perserved constant.  But when we add more force
for velcoicty, we mess that up.  Unless we make them all cancle each
othet out!

Force has to be based on relative velcoetiy to make sense.  And look at
what happens over an entire system!  If we start with one particle and
look at the relative velociety of all the others, they must all sum to
zero! This might tell us that the third conserved energy is always zero
over the entire system!  That magnetic monopols don't exist!  Maybe.

Which might tell us that how we are implenting magnet force is already
energy safe?

----

Ok, did test of conservation of total force on a particle inside a circle
of paricles.  It's not constant everywhere!  But if we change force
forumal to 1/r instead of 1/r^2 is does sum to a constant for each point.

1/r^2 makes total force a constant if we sum over an entire closing sphere
(or any enclosing surface I assume).

But what about magnetic field inside a closed circle of current?

wrote magCircleTest() to find out.  The answer is that it's not the same
over the inside of the circle. It's stronger at the edges near the wire
and weakest in the center. Should be infiit at wire I think but I'm not
sure about that.  1/r^2 goes to infinity but dl goes to zero at the same
time so I'm not sure.

But, strength is somewhwt similar over a lot of the circle only getting
to 2.5x stronger at the 20% from edge.  Switching to 1/r doesn't fix it
either though it shows closer to flat values.

----

Ok, turn off energy adjusting and see what happens.  Does magnatism make
it break badly or not change it?

----

[4:27 PM]

Ok, shit.  Tried to turn energyFix on and off to see if magnatism was
really messing up energy but I couldn't see any real difrference from
between mag on and maf off.  The energy gets so far messed up so q2uickly
I can't tell if magnatism is making it worse or not!  But in general it
doesn't seem to be making it worse.

I tried added random to the mag force function but that didn't make it
mess up much either!

I've got an ideas, switch from using relative velociety to absolute!

So when if calculates p1.mag(p2) it will get very different numbners
from p2.mag(p1).  lets see..

----

Ugh.  Even that swapping absolute v for relative didn't have as large
a difference as i expected.

Added relative e % of total KE to see how fast energy error was
accumulating relatove to KE.  Errors accumulate faster with Magnatism
turned on. But not all that much faster and not all the time.

Even with inverted or normal magnatism, it's still not accumulating
errors all that fast.

I really don't know what to make of this.  I'm not sure that magnatism
should balance out.  And I'm not sure it's not.

I was kinda hoping it would be either n obvious problem or an obvious
non problem but I can't say for sure if it's either!

Also, been running a few tests with book version of magnatism sign and
it's not really causing the system to crash with 2p2e tests.

--

Clenaed up some debug printouts.  Added screen size in angstroms.

--

The normal sign magnatism with 2p2e just fell into a state of low
orbit where on electon has e9 speeds and is inside the rLimit of the
simulation!!!!

I don't like the normal sign version due to this tendency to get into
this tight orbit. But, MAYBE, this is actully needed to make neturons?
But it sure make the simlation SUCK big time due to computation disaster
it creates.  No one said the universe was easy to simulate! :)

----

[7:19 PM]

Well, running late.  Not sure which direction to go next.

Ok, todo --- look at the total energy question and see if magnatism ends
up creating a potential energy we aren't accounting for!

Need to understand this better to understand if there's a way to do it
that doesn't throw it off -- of there isn't a way, then this needs to
be dealt with in the total energy calcuations as part of the systems
total energy.

And, so with different ideas for how to code magnatism, I can understand
what it does to the total energy issue.

-- 

idea -- turn off electrostic and only run with magnatism to see what
happens! Might help see/understand energy issues if we don't have
electostic swamping the behavior!

--

Idea, just try testing different made up version of magnatims to understand
what each does!  Might help gain udnerstanding of what is needed to make
m agnatism work!

--

Ok thought from early.  If we create a magnetic field with rotaing current
which way does the electon in the field spin around? With the current
or against it?  I've looked at this mutkple times, but I thought it
was spinning with the current, now I think it's backwards!

Meaning for postive current, protons will spin agaisnt the current.  For
negative current. electon swill spin against the current.

Yeah, seems to have confirmed this again.  When the current flows one way,
the charged particle trying to move through the field spins opposit way!

--

Related thought.  When two parallel wires pull together (due to current
flowing the same way in both), is the motion of the wire attempting to
create a back emf in the wires? (I assume so -- lets try to verify
this..)  Ah, sure it MUST due to how inductors work.  Yes, playing with
right hand rules seems to confirm this.

--

I was trying to justify my backwards sign by saying the reason curent
worked was some complex probprty of current interacting with atoms.

Might still be. But I really feel the need to try and make curren
work as simple moving charged particles and give up on the investion
problem.  But the postive version creates orbit colapse.  So maybe
a slight different version of of the postive version will fix it? 

Like, motion causing the force vector DIRECTION to change but not the
total magnatude?  Might keep potential energy correct if we do that?

If new force is added due to motion, then we have to consider total
motion part of the energy equation.  If motion only BENDS paths, then
it's not part of the energy equation.  But that can't be true or else
motors aould not work.  I don't think.  But if motion points the force
vector a diferent way...????

At speed of light, two electons passing each other, it bends the force
45 deg maybe to make them slow down as well as push away?

But the same for attraction, would force them to pull together faster?

-- Or, what if all motion effects was to make particles slow down?

-- so not negative for different charges.

-- could something like that leak out as gravity?

What if I have the direction of the vector corect, but I just need to
add a reduction in the strength of the ES vector while the motion force
vector grows?

-- Like calling it the motion force instead of magnetic...

ok, I'm liking the idea of giving up on normal magnetic equations and
just looking at what might make sense to implment, and then following
that to see what it causes to emerge.  This might help me find the right
answer even if it turns out the right answer is what the magnetic equtions
were saying!  Or almost what they were saying!

Ah, if the motion force slows down motion, then it seeems like it would
try to kill all motion but I guess it could just be abother part of the
energy balance of the system.

After all, we have captictors and inductors that both hold energy and
release it.   If capacitors hold it with the potential enegy of the ES
field, it feels like we need a way for the motion force to hold it as
potential energy as well!

Ah, fuck.  WTF.  When the current stops in an inductor, there is a
magnetic field holding energy!  The magnetic field is said to colapse
and put energy back into the current flow!  WTF is that energy stored?
In a magent force field?  No fucking way.  It must be in the orbital
energy of the particles in the iron core or the air if that's all you
got or edit currents of the core.

Ok, so the magnetic energy of one moving object must be transfered to
another and back again. Somehow.  Can we make movement force just a way
of kenetic enrgy to move from one object to another instead of trading
off with potential energy?

That sounds cool.  That sounds correct.  I'll try to set it up so movement
force does only that -- transfers kenetic energy from one to another.
It might be that any equal and opposit force between two particles will
always do that anyway!  Need to figure out if that's true.

No, that's NOT true! equal and opposit force on two particles standing
still will ADD kenetic energy to both!  But if one is moving, and we
apply force to slow it down, we can apply force to another to speed it
up to do the transfer! I think.

I'm thinking if motion causes the ES force to point a different way,
that might be harmless?  No, wait, not harmless. It would break the
potential energy vs kentic energy system if it pointed a different way?

Shit, so I think motion force must transfer ke from one to the other at
all times or else brak energy conservation!

This is fun. I'm making progress.  I'll have to pick this up tomorrow.

Need food and tv. And exercise.  Or maybe, not food?  Lost 1 lb this
morning.  Maybe I should just try starving myself to get the weight down?
So hard to not eat...

[8:24 PM]


================================================================================

2016-09-29 4:14 PM Thursday

Yesterday

1) Endless thinking about how to implement magnatism "correctly"

2) Tested 2D circle of particles. What's the total force on the inside
of the circle?  Constant everywhere? Nope.  Weakest in center, strongr
at ecges.  But if force is chanved to 1/r instead of 1/r^2 is it equal
everywhere! And center of spher, is equal everywhere with 1/r^2 force!

3) Same sort of test for magnatism inside 2D current coil.  Again, not
the same everywhere.  Weakest in center, stronger at edges.  However the
change is fairly flat thorugh the middle and only grows strong in the last
20% near edge.  Going to infinity at wire maybe? Gets flatter if 1/r is
used instead of 1/r^2 but not flat.  Because all sides add to the field.
None subtract from it which is what is happening in the force test --
the forces fight each other.

4) Study question of whether magnatism is adding energy or creating a
potential energy vs kentic trade off not correctly being accounted for
by total energy code using only potential energy of ES force vs kentic
energy of motion.

5) Intesting ideas of how to approach it -- by trying to undestand whast
should work!  And The diea if needing to better understand energy vs
force questions.

Today

Very late start.  Rain last night. Dark this morning.  Did get up and
started before 11 but got distracted on long long posts about economics
and basic income to a post by Eray.

Also spent a lot of time thkninig about force effects last night instead
of sleeping. Just excited to see where the thoughts from yesterday might
lead. But not real insights just thinking about it.

Oh, but one.

--

What if magnatism can work as being 90 deg to motion, and that if we
add all these forces up without creating matching opposit forces to
each other particle, that  they will naturalky all balance each other
out?

--

If that is true, then my point about making sure all forces from partical
a to b must balance could be invlaid.

This might work, due to total momentum being zero?

Total monumtum of zero means center of mass is fixed and has a net velocitey
of zero. But total velociety is not zero.    One electon can move fast
to the right, while a proton moves slow to the left, to balance monumum
but not velociety.

If force is a function of velcoiety and charge, but not mass, then total
force won't balance beause total velociety doesn't balance.

But I think force must balance, to mantain conservation of momentum.

Yeah, e and p have equal and opposit force and monentum is perserved.
If the force was any different, monumum would not be perserved.

But not energy!  The equal and opposit force accelerates both and creates
kenetic energy.

But, force at 90 deg to motion, doesn't change velociety and doesn't
change kentic energy!  But WOULd mess up conservation of momentum!
So one sided force used to curve the path, will mess conservation of
moneumtum just as a bounce does, which is why I reset it after a bounce.

Ah, but what if the force causing me to curve, was corrctly balanced by
forces on all other particles that "adjusted" for momeuntum!

Ah, but that is just what I'm doing now really!  Sort of.  Ah, probably
not!

Yes, the balance is preseving conservation of monumtum, BUT the
distribtion of the monentum across all the other particles is not balanced
the same I bet!  Yeah, if one particle made me curve right, and other
curve left, my not change might be zero -- but each of the individual
particles would have been subjected to opposing forces!

---

Fuck, that is an idea.  We know that a single charged particle moving
in a magnetic field only has forces at 90 deg to it's motion.  So how
do we make this 90deg true for all motion of all particles that interct
by magnatism?

My current approach creates 90 deg force for the relative motion of
two particles.  But makes it equal and opposit.  So the actual force on
the particles actual indivdiual motion is not 90 deg.

This was all done to make forces equal and opposit.  But what if they
all balance out equal and opposit on their own somehow if all we do is
add 90 deg force to actualy frame of reference motion to start with?

And can we do this, so it works the same magicaly in all frames of
reference?

Ok, so particle in middle of loop of current is receiivng a little
mag froce from every circulating current charge in theory.  how does
that work?  We have the velociety of the charge and distance contolling
the force.

Ah, in my two particle test I was experimenting with, I didn't force
the total montumum of the system to be zero!  So to get the system
to have equal forces, I had to use relative velocity of the system!
Which forced a sort of equal and opposit balance.

So, I need a force equation that 1) always produces 90 deg to the
velcoiety in the curret frame of reference (that's easy).  But also
always sums to zero over all paritciles in the system!

So the amount of force on A, will be based on distance to B, and cross
product as needed to make 90 deg. But also maybe, on velocilty of B?
But does it maybe only need to be based on velcoiety of A that is running
parallel to me?  So when A is moving straing at me, it creates no force
on me?

I think that's what the equations are already doing with v1xv2xr.

But mayyyyybe, Xr shouldn't be in there?  Maybe the direction of my
magnetic force should only be based on ...

--

But, no. The whole point of my testing was that total force has to balance
no matter what frame of referece we are on.  so adding a constant offset
to all vextors, had to produce a sum total of zero.

Ah, but that's NOT what I tested for!  I tested that the force didn't
change with the frame of reference.  But maybe it's ok and required that
the forces change with the frame of reference as long as the total forces
all add to zero!

Ok, force vs velcoeity vs momenutm again.

Velocities don't sum to zero! So forces based on only velocities, not
going to sum to zero as a result either.

Velociety frame of reference not the same thing as monumtum frame of
reference.

Ah, but it is!  if we add a constant velcoiety to all oobjects, we make
the center of mass movement change by that same amount so we have changed
total monentum by the same v*(total mass).

Well, lets stop guessing. Lets code the damn formula as all the phsics
books tell us to, and see what happesn to TOTAL force in the system!

Ok, right off the bat.   I see an issue.  Two particles, moving in
different odd directions. if the force on one is v X V x R, the direction
of the force vector will be 90 degree to my velocity. But the direction
will be in line with the r plane. It will not balance the vector for
the other particle.

BUT, with this odd v vectors, we don't have zero monumum.  If we adjust
velcoeity to force zero monemtn, does it foce the mag vectors to balance?

Ok, I can't tell by thinking, and I don't want to try and work though
the math.  Time to code and test.

----

[6:25 PM]

Modified mag test code to work with world[] of N particles. Set up for
three now.  Summing total mag force.  Not summing to zero!  But, what
does it take to sum to zero!!! That's what I need to figure out!

================================================================================

2016-09-30 9:55 AM Friday

Yesterday

1) Exploring ideas of how to implement magnatism and how to think
about what it is really doing.  My current code doesn't seem like it
can recreate basic effects correctly so it doesn't feel like it can
be correct.

2) modified the magTest() code to work with N particles instead of just
two and to calucate sum of all mag foces -- mght the sum over a set
zero out even when two particles in the set don't?  That's the question.
And, whether it should sum to zero only in a stable inertia frame or a
stable monumtum frame?  etc.

Today

Not distracted by Facebook yet.  Getting startered sooner.  Yesterday I
wrote a long long set of posts to help Eray understand my position on
economics and Basic Income.  And by god, if he didn't end up agreeing
with the conclusion about labor share being driven down while captial
share rises.  But delayed by start to looking at magnatism forces again
until late afternoon.

Getting an early start today on magnatism!

Had my vitamas already!  Coffee.  Bananna.  Lost 1lb since  yestercay
and down to 222.2 lbs.  Good becaues I worked hard to not eat much the
day before and didn't drop weight! Going to try and keep up the push
until I get below 220.

----

[12:14 PM]

Ok, just wasted a few hours on Basic Income stuff on facebook.  Need more
coffee, and I must dig into this magntism stuff...  Oh, BGOP board
meeting tonight as well.

--

Ok, much complex shit happening in my thinking about magnetic fields.

The problems, is that the system must conserve energy, and conserve
momentum.  It can't be a free energy source.

I thought that meant that the magnetic fields between to particles had
to balance in force.  The force had to be equal and opposit.

But, maybe that's wrong. I need to better understand what's needed to
balance total energy and total monumtum.

For example, it might be ok if two particles don't blance, as long as
a large system of particles do all balance out.

Of course, two particles alone have to balance if they are the entire
system, but that may not translate to using the same math for 10
particles.  Maybe.

So I've had the question as to whather magentic effects create a new
energy store.  So instead of just haing kenetic energy, and potential
enrgy of the ES force to balance, there might be a third factor of the
potential energy of the magnetic force to balance in the equation as well.

We know that capactiors and inductors both store energy. And the magenetic
field is said to story energy even when current is not flowing (at the
electic zero cross over point is maximaul magenetic field strength).

But is that energy IN the magnetic field at the lowest levels I'm tryingt
to code, or is it just the same kenetic and potentical engey we alrady
measure?  Aka, in real coils, might it be stored as kenetic or potential
energy in the atoms of the iron core of the coil?

Part of the issue with tha tquestion, is that I've read many times that
though electic and magnet fields trade off, whether we "see it" as one
or the other, is a frame of referece question. Which seems bogus --
aka, our frame doesn't change the unviese, it only changes what it looks
like to us. Meaning howeer the enrgy is stored, it must the same in all
theortical observational/measurment frames.

If it's not a new source, then we need to think of it as a tweak to the
old source.

But clealry, the old ES field is based on distance alone, not velociety.
What seems to be happening with the magnetic field, is that we are adding
a force based on velociety.

But if it's not creating a new form of potential energy, then all that
must be ahppening is that velociety is shfiting the potential energy
from one place to another.

This implies that looking at potential energy on distance alone gives
us the correct answer to total energy. But that shifting the frame of
reference, gives us what LOOKS in the new frame as different answers
when it's not!

Ok, so here's a clear problem.  Static particles, with no motion, but
lots of potential eneryg.  Then we shift to a new inertial frame of
reference by adding a constant velcoiety factor to everything.  WHAM --
the total kenetic energy changes with no change to potential energy!
Just from a frame shift. That seems wrong.  Seems like me might be able to
"fix" that somehow?

But, this chagne is only a shift into our "percpetion" of total energy.
It doesn't change the behavior of the system at all.  We can clcuate all
the motion under the new frame, using the same math, then translate it
all back to the old frame, and get exactly the same resuls.

The math remains invariant to frame of reference change.

But if the math of magnetic fields is based on velocity, it won't remain
invairant of frame shifts!

This is what led me to use relative velcoiety to do all the calcuations.
Which still seems valid.  Assuming it actualy produces the rigth
answers. But that's the problem. My math didn't produce what seemed to
be valid electomagnatic effects -- like wires pulling together.  Like
electons spinning in a magnetic field created by circulating electons.

If total force on a particle is defined by ES 1/r^2 equation, and all
motion did was change the direction of the force, then we would not
be creating a new energy storage source.  That seems clean.  And seems
like something to check.

if motion changes total force, I think we are scrweed.  Or, better said
motion would be a potential energy store alone with distance.  But
sepawrate from kenetic energy store.  Or- would redefine what the kentic
energy question was.

--

Side thought -- e=mc^2 is not e=1/2mv^2 and this has always bothered me.
Why the missing 1/2? This might be a path to unerstanding the extra
energy story of motion?  1/2 mv^2 is kenetic, and 1/2mc^2 is magenetic
potential energy? So at slow speeds, all the enrgy is kentic, and the
formal is 1/2mv^2. But at high speeds, half is kentic, and half is
magnetic making it e=mv^2?  Just random wild thoughts...

--

Ok, so, what does it TAKE mathematically to conserve energy and momentum?
That's an answer I don't realky know. Not as well as I should.

If motion creates a new additional force in the system, then the new
vector foces on all particles must sum to zero in order to conserve
momentum.  Yes, a constant force adds constant monumtum over time to any
mass particle.  So if we add it one pace, we must blance ith by adding
the invese someone else. So the sum of all force vectors must be zero
to mantain monumtum.  But not constant summed velocity.

But, when there is more than one particle, it could sum over the whole
set. There is no requirement that pars sum to zero.

If pairs all sum to zero force, then we know the set must sum as well.

So yes, it's true that forces on indivudal particles don't need to be
paired as long the total sum to zero.


--

Quick code test.  mag test from yesterday using 3 particles.  Switched
to all three being electons to see if the mass consistenice made total
force zero or constant. It didn't.  That was with a force that was NOT
based on relative velocity, but on actual particle velocity instead.

But going back to the old relative code, total force is zero all the
time of course -- since individual pair forces are the same with that code.

--

Rule 1:  Total sum of force must be zero to mantain constant monentum.

If motion rotated the direction of the es force, but didn't change it's
magnatude, then we will maintain monentum, and not change the potential
vs kenetic energy balance.  I'm pretty sure.  It's like changing veceityh
vectors doesn't change kenetic energy onl paths.

Rotating force vectors will only change paths, not total eneryg. yeah
beuase DF/dt will still be based on distance! Change in force will be
chagne in distance so chagne in kenetic energy will be change in distance
as well. Right?

This path of thought seems very clean with the 1-v^2/c^2 stuff becuaes
it doesn't rquire that we code the balance into the low level force
equation -- we mantain the balance by just rotaing the force vector.

This would require coils to work by transfering kenetic eenrgy from the
current flow to the "magenet" aka kenetic energy stored in electonic
orbits I guess. That seems ok. The kenetic energy of the orbits is
creating the "mageneti field" that is holding the energy when tha the
current crosses the zero voltate point.

Oh, wait, current and volate is 90 deg out of sync in AC capacitor vs
inductgor circuits. That's why they hold energy when there is no current.
sort of.

They are 180 deg out of sync.

So how the fuck would that translate to force rotation in the interaction
between two particles?

Capactors are build up of charge being more 1/d^2 ES push back to the
current.

Coils work by the faster the voltage CHANGE the more push back they create?
So at the zero crossing, they are creating maximal push back?

Intergrate current ot get capacitor push back.

Differentiate current to get coil push back?.

Capacitory behavior is EASILLY expalined by the ES force.

But coil behavior I'm lost to explain with force equations.  This is
what I need to explain.

Capactiros translate energy into distance.  Coils must ranslate it it
into something else. If not a new type of energy store, it must be
a Velociety store.  We call it "magenetic field" but I think that's
BS. I think it's velociety store in the magenet -- is just the motion
of electons in the atoms.

But, that's what it needs to do.  Translate electic current flow in
the coil, into motion in the atoms. To transfer kenetic energy from one
particle in current flow, to another in the atom.

So we talk about magenetic fields acting 90 deg to motion which prevents
KE chagne, but chagnes path. But that's BS.  If all magenetic force
worked that way alone, then magenets and coils and transforms would have
no ability to transfer energy. I don't think.

Ah, but yes, wait.  When we have an electon in oribit, ti's KE is constant
because the distance force is constant.  If magnatism forced the path
to change, then that would force it to slow down or speed up due to the
path change and the ES force.  Changing path, can chagne whethr the ES
force is moving energy.

So, one way to look at this, is that magnatism chagnes paths and the
path change forces the normal ES force to move energ.

Capacitor force is in liine with current flow.  An electon moving
forward into a pile of electons, will be pushed back.

But coil force, is not inline.  It's some sort of side by side effect.
The motion of the electon running parllel to me pushes me back.

So, two electons passing in the night.  I have thought of this is
needing an incrased sidwise force to explain magnatism. But what
we might really need, is increased in axial force.

So, two electons passing in the night:

  V1<----e1
         ^
	 |
     ES FORCE
	 |
  	 v
         e2----->V2

Then need to act against each other, increasing push back/drag!

  V1<----e1 -> Mag
         ^
	 |
     ES FORCE
	 |
  	 v
  Mag <- e2----->V2

But, if we are not adding a new potential energy store, we must reduce
ES force by however much we increase MAG? So total force is still based
on 1/d^2.  The total potential energy can still be calcuated on distance
alone then.

So two electons that pass each other are being pushed aprt by ES force.
But the fast they do, the less it pusshes, and the more the two act to
slow each other down.  Or, if one is going faster, it speeds up the other?
No wait, wouldn't it "win" making the other stop?

Ok, sign might be the wrong way here.  A quick look at parallel currents
in wire seems to suggest tha tmight be true.  The electons in paralel,
have no change so it pushes apart just as hard as normal. But the protons,
that atract, will attract less?  UGH. That doesn't work either.

Ah, maybe this does work with absolute velocities?

OR, the effect is the same regardless of the sign of the charge?
TheY act against each other no matter what the sign, but ES reduces?
Or, they attempt to cross transfer kenetic energy sideways no matter
what the sign of the charges?

The amount of transfer is relative to the angle between r and v?  As we
are doing with cross products?

But no, it must be a function of V as well. Doesn't it?

So, it seems the mag force needs to be a function of velcoeity slowing
the paricles down, based on how near to the speed of light it is.
And the more we add mag force to slow it down, the more we must take
away from the ES force to keep total force the same so as to not create
a new potential store.

Ok, but what if we didn't subtract from ES force.  Then relative
velocities would be a potential energy store.

Oh, fuck.  Orrr, if the total monentum was zero, the store would be zero?
All the relative forces would cancel out in the system?  But if the
system is moving, then it's an energy store -- sucking kenetic energyh
out of the system -- slowing it all down!

So, in a different frame of reference, how much energ ssemed to be stored
in the motion kenetic energy, would be hidden, from the relative numbers.

BUT... That works now already. If we set the system into motion, all the KE
numbers change even though the PE stays the same.  But if we adjusted
by calcuating the motrion of the center of mass of the sytem, that would
give us the missing KE.  I assume. And that's all without magnetic forces
at play.

So what do we add with magnetic forces? ???

--

Ok, so like particles crossin the night get pushed APPART by magnaitm,
not together.  Unlike get pulled TOGETHER.

  V1<----e1 -> Mag
         ^
	 |
     ES FORCE
	 |
  	 v
  Mag <- e2----->V2

So if mag acted in this direction, on the chart.  And ES didn't change
when Mag increased, then the effect would be to make them take a path
that curved apart sooner.  That seems correct.  like partices curve
apart on a tigher path when they pass in the night like this.

But that seems to be true even if ES is reduced in force to make totl
force the same.

At the speed of light, the Mag force wold equal he ES force.  In theoy.

So it would looik like this:



	   total force 45 deg.
           /
          /
  V1<----e1 -> Mag
         ^
	 |
     ES FORCE
	 |
  	 v
  Mag <- e2----->V2
        /
       /
 Total force down to left

[BIG EDIT LATER -- NO NO NO if ES is reduced by what we add to MAG, then
ES is zero and we twist the force to make it 90 deg from normal]

Or, if we think of mag force as CHANGE to ES force needed to do this,
what does it look like?

In the above, ES is x units up for e1.  Then it rotates to 45 to the right
still the same length. So the chnage force is (1-.707, .707-1.0), x, y.

Oh, fuck me.  The length of the change vector becomes sqrt(.5) == .707.
Let me write code to verify this.

Oh, no.  The length is .765367 ish  Which is actually mag deltal to force:
(0.707, 0.707-1.0) I was wrong above. Where .707 is sqrt(.5) aka sqrt(2)/2

For a second, I thought sqrt(5) just showed up.  Which fits in with
sqrt(1e-7) question from the constants of these equations.  But no
it didn't.  Not really.

Ok, so the thought here, is that relative velociety parallel to the
r axes between two particles generates a twist to the ES force to act
to slow down the approach? But weaken the ES force by the same amount.
Or speed up the depature?  or slow down the departurer as well??

Yeah, Relative force has no depature/approach concept. It's just motion.

We can draw it as one paricle standing still, and then a velociety vector
for the other, in any direction.

So we take the part of that "any direction" relative velocity vector, and
find the magnatude parallel to the r vector (vxr).  And we add a new force
vector to slow it down -- take ke out of it in that direction.  And the
magnatude of the KE, is the same as SE, (kcc/r^2), adjusted by speed of
light? sqrt(1-v^2/c^2) sort of thing? So we so we add force to slowdown
the motion parallel to r.  But adjust the ES force to make total force
remain the same.  We twist the ES vector, but don't change it's strength.

This adds a type of headwind to the system to reduce KE buildup. Or,
which means, keep particles from getting too close?  Oh, I wonder.
Could this create an effect that looks like the strong force?  When e
p get close and fast, they repeling force between p and p starts to
vanish letting the ep attaction dominate or something?  Not seeing it,
but could be something there.

Or, depending on frame of reference, does this really just make all
particles want to go the same speed? The fast one try to speed up the
slow ones?

So, what does this make the formula?  Maybe I'll go to the code and try
to code this idea.

[3:07 PM]

---

Relalized while coding.  If two particles pass at speed of light, it
would force a full 90 deg twist to ES using it's full energy to slow down
the formotion and no force to keep them together, or push them apart.
Back to code...

----

[4:19 PM]

getting lost with the math trying to code it.  Having second thoughs about
whether it should always slow down foward motion since this requires a
conditional sign flip for +- vs ++ or --.  That doesn't feel right. Not
elegant enough.

Another note.  Since ES is c^2 vs Mag being v^2, then both compute to
produce the same total foce at the speed of light without having to use
c in the code at all.  We are just looking at the ratio of mag to ES.
Or, we just calcuate the Mag force and subtract that from the ES force
to get the right twising effect in total force!

More thinking takes me back to liking the idea that the mag force is
always acting to move ke from fast to slow -- working to act against
direction of motion. I guess just try to code it and not worry about
elegance of how I code it.  Maybe the math will slimplify later.

---

Oh messy messy.  Subtracting magnetic force from ES vector doesn't keep
the magnatude of ES the same! It doesn't just twist it!  It turns the
rotational circle into a dimaond. Not the same thing.

So now what?  My logic is all broken.

Lets start again...

To make parallel wires attract, the electrons moving together will
have no effect.  But the ep will be moving relative to each other.
relativity says distance shrinks in direction of motion.  So ES pull
gets stronger logically and shifts dirction slightly for each individua
distant particle.  Which doesn't matter for the infinite straight line.

Ah, the relativity view of this argues the appracohing proton will
act as if it's distance is contracted in the direction of appraoch.
So that makes the ES stronger than it would be.  Indicating ES force is
not maintained as a constant in this view.

BUT, relativity also argues for mass and time changes and I don't know
how all these work together in on example like this.

Maybe it all adds up to being the same as my ES vector rotation idea?
Not totally impossible. I guess.

So magnatism would need to rotate the ES vector relative to the ratio
of Mag force vs ES force.  And in this eample of a + appracohing a -,
we are talking about having to rotate forward to increase the parallel
attraction between the paths while approaching, but hum, rotate BACKWARDS
on departure.

That does not feel consistent with the idea of acting to speed up or
slow down the approaching or departing. Or consistent with the idea of
transfering kenetic energy as they pass.

--

This is feeling much like AI work. Around and around in circles with
the same abstract ideas trying to get a combination that sticks and works.
Just sayaing.

--

If current works as it seems to on face value of moving electons relativ
to moving holes, then when e and p pass in space increased velociety has
to make them attact more.  Probably the whole way -- both when approaching
and departing.  Tilting the force vector forward on appraoch, but
backwards on departure.

--

Fuck, I really like the idea of rotation to prevent the creation of
separate potential energy field based on velociety.

And I really  like the diea of magnetic forcing acting 90 deg to all
ES forces.

If velociety alone created change in path that would make an easy to
define potential enrgy story But it would be in direct conflict with
simple kenetic energy.

But if it roates, then the paths are odd, but the energy is still
easy to calcuate.  But of the energy was easy, would we need all the
comoplexity of relativity? Maybe.  No one has suggested relativity
vilolates conservation of energy in any frame.

So particles only interact with other particles.  Seems like a basic
optential valid idea for the univers. It's all particleal realtive.

So using relative velociety to calcuate rotation of ES field seems
plausable.  So lets just use the v^2xr to define the force of the ma
field, and then think of this is rotation between the c^2 vs v^2
directions.  Ah, but them the field only rotates 45 deg as I was
thinking once, not a full 90.  But if "energY" was taken away
from the other direction, it's a full 90 deg.

----

[10:32 PM]

Whent to BGOP board meeting. Just got back.  Will go to forge Sunday
with Phil.

Had an idea in the car.  The diamond pattern of vector "rotation"
I'm thinking might actually be fine.  They are kinda like v^2 terms.
So the sqrt(a+b) is constant when you add to one and and subtract from the
other!  It might be closer to same as 1/sqrt(1-v^2/c^2) than I realize.
The magnatude of sqrt(force) I think is maintained?

f=100

sqrt(f) = 10

fmag = 20

f=100-20=80 vs 20

sqrt(a+b) still equal 10.

But magnatude is sqrt(80^2 + 20^2) = 82.4

ah, gee.  No, this is complex.  It might work, but it would be for
complex reasons if it did.

It's worth coding and playing with I think.

================================================================================

2016-10-01 8:35 AM Saturday

Yesterday

1) Trying to come up with idea of how to code magnatism, but yet make
standard magnetic macro effects show up, but also without breaking
conservation of energy and monumtum.

2) Coded ES force rotation concept.  But turned out to not be rotation
but rather X vs Y shift.  Left it running in a few 2p2e tests.  Three of
the 4 kept the two e together.  But has gone into tight orbit with very
slow simlation on one ep pair.  Second e has flow off.  This is with
energy reduction on bounce as well.  The thrid is about the same but
with about 50% further separation of the ep pair.

Today

Not sure if the code I produced is bug free.  Didn't spend enough time
testing and verifying it and undertanding if it even makes any sense.
Need to double check the code is both doing what I think it's doing and
to verify thta it makes sense to do it that way.

Need to keep thinking on this.

Why don't the published magnetic attaction formuals work when translated
to the particle level?  What am I missing?  Why are they so frame
dependen?

The implication is that changing frame can turn magnetic to electostatic
but still produce the same results. However, electostaict is frame
invariant so it's not doing that.  I'm I missing a matching electostatic
frame being enduced by magnatism?  Is that it?  That does make some sense.
It can be understood as the "adjustment" to the ES field like I just coded
on this last attempt.  So as to keep total force the same?  That would
explain why it looks all wrong but yet must be right since this is well
studied by endless very smart people.

So, so, what is the missing electostatic?  Do I just need to reverse
the electostatic so as to offset the calcuated mag as I was just doing?
Or correctly rotate it?

Again, it doesn't seem valid that the magnetic field can be allowed to
change due to frame of reference.  It makes no sense for the universe
to work like that.

Real world macro level magnatic effects are highly frame invariant at
our macro level.

Another thought.  In line with the parallel wires attracting.  Two magnets
attract.  So if a current loop creates a magent, then two of those
parallel will be two magenets held together S to N and they will attract.

So, P standing still with E moving, must attract!  Which means the
motion causes the attraction to increase.  Which has odd ramifications
for orbits.  At lest this is true if frame of reference invarance holds --
which it MUST damn it -- at least for low speeds....

---

facebook UBI distractions.

---

Thinking about current flow.  The electons won't be constantly moving.
They will be stopping and starting as they jump from atom to atom.
I wonder if this plays some role?  That the velociety has to increase
then slow down?  Or, could be a fast orbit, where it has to speed
up to exit, then slow down when it's recaptured.

My thinking (and the equations) tend to ignore the variation implying
that the total sum is all that is important. Which makes lots of
logical sense.

But, hum, what if magnatism was not as much a true force, but only
an odd side effect of relativity distortion?  That's the entore point
of magnatism was not that it was fundamental as much as the fabric
of reality was not so simple, and the bending of the fabric of reality
was what created the force as a side effect?

This view of course seems to be what people claim to be true. But
I don't think I've allowed myself to accept it.  In fact my entire
approach here was to think reality really is newtonian and that magnatism
is just an emergent property of some fundamental newtonian features.

But in that view, I think I've always seen magnatism as fundamental
anyway, and that reality distortion was just something more complex
added as well.  Because we do have fundamental equations to describe
magnatism without adjustments for relativity.

I'm not giving up on my seerach for a newtonian answer just yet, but
it's good to open my eyes and thing in the other direction!

But "reality distrotion" really just means that from the frame
of refference of a single electon, what does the rest of reality
"look like".

Or, if an electron moving towards other particles means the particles
act as if they are closer than they seem, then why not code magnatism
that way!  So, the approching proton just seems to be a different
location, but the total force on me, is still calcuated using the
same ES equation, with an adjusted location of the particle.

Ok, so if the real distance is X, we can calculate the ES force.

But if the relative distance acts like Y, then the force WON'T just be
rotated! It will be stronger!

So, relative motion, makes the particles act like they are closer
together!  But only in the path of the relative motion.

Which implies that two particles when they are passing side by side, there
is no additional force.  Contraction is only in the direction of motion.
So the sidewise force is created as it approaches, and leaves, but not
when it's side by side!

This seems to be a ver different rule.  And oh, look, such a rule has no
effect on an orbting pair, beuase they are always in constant parallel
motion (well for a circular orbit at least).

Hey, might this force high speed eliptical orbits into circles???
That could be useful.

Ok, this seems possible!  But it seems totally different than the
magnatism code I've been using!  paritcles far off won't have much change,
but the change will get stronger as it gets near, but then fade away,
and be no difference when side by side.  Very odd and different from
what the magnetic code was implying!  Which is good, since the magnetic
formulas weren't working!

So what is the correct forumal for this?

I need relative motion.  Easy.  Got that.

----

Facebook distraction.

-----

[11:08 AM]

Start with relative motion vector, v.

r dot v is the distance to be distorted.

Then shrink that by lorenz contraction. r/sqrt(1-v^2/c^2) maybe?  No,
that's r/0 at the speed of light.  Wrong direction.  I guess r*sqrt(...).
That's r for v = 0, and 0 for v c.  That seems the right direction.

Then find the other axes, which is r cross vHat.

Fuck, what we are looking at is probably just delta r aren't we?  dr/dt is
zero when passing, so no distortion. And dr/dt is small relative to the
r when far away.

Which is just v dot r isn't it!

BUT, the space distortion view tells us the direction of the vector
changes as well as the strength.  But if we think dr/dt just changes
the strength is changing, we won't get the same results.  But relativity
says time changes as well space, and maybe mass.  Maybe all these complex
effects add up to being the same as if ES force changed with dr/dt?

But on the apporach, dr/dt will be negative. And on departrure dr/dt
will be postive.  But yet we need both to make ES stronger?

Actually, to be clear d|r|/dt is what I'm talking about. A magnatude
change.  Not dr/dt the vector change.

----

Oh oh oh.  It's not the change in distance alone. It's the change
in electic field that change in distance is creating!  So dt/dt is
creating de/dt!  And the stregnth of the "magnetic field" is based
on de/dt!  So even when traveling at the speed of light, a very distant
particle is only creating a small de/dt so only a very small magnetic
field distortion!

But as it gets closer the effect gets stronger!

And this is why all the talk about a changing electic field will create a
changing magnetic field and vice versa.  create a changing magnetic field!
I'm guessing...

So, can this way of looking at it help?  What force does the de/dt create!

---- Ah, going back to check Maxwells equations.  finding Ampere's law
that says B(curl) is based on two terms -- which is both the current
density flow AND de/dt.

OK OK OK.  the b = qv/r^2 crap only works for CONSTANT velociety current!
That's all most the sites are talking about. But there's a a dv/dt
term in there that's been left out!  So if the current is changing,
the magnetfic field is different!

Or, translated to particles, if the velociety is changin, it changes
the magnetic field???  Oh, this gets so complex so fast.

But look, a particle standing still in the middle of current loop will
expernce no effects! Only when it moves relative to this "magenet field"
does it have an effect. And only when it moves, will it experinece any
de/dt due to the particles around it -- beuae they are all moving at 90
degrees to it and maintaning a constant distance.

But that's when it's at the center.

When it's at other lcoation, the same should be true -- not total magnetic
effect becuase the particles is not moving relative to the stationary
fixed magnetic field!  But there will be lots of little de/dt effect at
thiat point because all the elecotns are are in offset circular orbit
around this particle.

But they will all be paired and equal and opposit!

Very fucking cool.

So maybe it's possible that total de/dt is the answer here!

Or, for just two particles, de/dt.

But but but.. straight wire, electons approaching and leaving.

De/dt flips.  Ok, so again, a charged particle standing still will see
all the de/dt effects but if they pull stronger on approach and weaker
on departure, it will pull us towards the approaching particles.  But it
should have no effect on us if we we were standing still.

The length contraction concept implies they will pull stronger on approach
but also pull stronger on departure.  But again, that's Broken with
respect to the idea that the particle standing still shouldn't move at
all.  If all the ES fields were canceled out by matching protons that is.

Well, if we find a way to justify thworsing in a (de/dt)^2 or some such in
there we get the abs() function without "cheating" and just coding abs().
Then we get length contraction like effects.

But then that implies a single charged particle next to the wire with
the const flow will be attracted or reveled from the wire.

AH AH AH!  But if it's a wire with matching + and - the attraction and
push will be equal and opposit! So the wire won't be attracted to the
other wire!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

But once the electons in the second wire move, BAM!, the enetire wire
sees attraction or push.

So, this is suggesting that (de/dt)^2 makes the force increase, whether
it's + or - force.

So, a charge particle inside a current coil, but not at the center,
would be forced to move. If this is true.  But not at the center.
Electons circulating, will make an electon in the center, fly away??
Because they would push harder against it?  But as it starts to move
then.....  Complex shit unfolds?  Ok, wait.  it's near the center
and starts to move away from the center due to the forces.  The ones
that match it's direction don't push as hard anymore and the ones
on the other side push stronger.  Yes, it seems to curve in the correct
direction!  Away from the fast moving and towards the slow moving,
which makes it spin opposit the direction of the circulating electon
flow.

But a nurtral charge particle like atom, won't move in these cases.
The forces will all balance.

But magnetic fields aren't supposed to have any effect on a charged
particle unless it moves! WTF WTF.  Is there no ansewr that works
for all cases? :)

Ah, a changing magnetic field, is like a particle moving through a
static magnetic field. Maybe. The particle is "crosing" lines of flux
logocally? aka lines of flux are sweeping over the particle!  So it
creates a force on the particle and makes the particle move.  Oppoist
the direction of flux changing???? Is that how it's supposed to work?
Or is that logic only applying to electons in wires paried with matching
protons that experence no net force unless the magentic field is changing?
Maybe so?

Maybe this is why it's all been so confusing trying to understand these
questions.  Maybe the whole notion of current is invalid when we are
talking about the intereaction at the particle level becuse current
is a macro effect that ermg3d from large sets of intercint particles
including matching protons in a wire?

Yes, yes, see, current in a wire of matched + and - has no net change
in electical field!  even if at the particle to particle level they are
all changing!

Or maybe the correct undestanding is to ignore the current side of the
equations and look only at the de/dt part, WHICH was totally left out of
many of the simple exmaples that were only describing constant current
flow examples!

So current is spcial, but not in any complex orbital ways, only in the
fact that it's matched sets of + and - particles locked together in
a path.

So, if I can come up with a de/dt equation for magnatism, that correct
explains current in wire behavior of magnatism, them maybe that's the
answer!

So, my current best guess is looking like de^2/dt creates an incrase
in force for whatever direction the force was to start with.

----

Lots of daydreaming..

----

AH.  Inside a current loop, the magnetic field is not constant. It's
got a slope!  A charged particle not moving, should not be effected by
a CONSTANT magenetic field. But the field in this loop is not constant!
It's slooped.  So maybe that counts as a curved hill that the paricle
will roll down!  Making the behavior of the charge particle trying to
roll out of the loop correct!  Or the behavior of a postive particle
rolling to the middle -- like in a bowl.

But if the magenetic field was constant in flux everywere, the particle
wouldn't move!  Maybe that's how it's supposed to work!

And once the particle starts to move, then it all gets more complex!

So maybe the behavior of the single charged particle being moved by the
field is a correct concept?  For the full maxwell equations.  Even if
not correct for the simplified current formulas!

Ok, lets pretend this might be right.

----

Or, a gradient in the magenetic field might be said to create an electic
field!  Forcing the particle to move.

Ah, and a constant flat magenetic field is like what find right at the
center of the loop (at the hill top or hill bottom) and won't make the
charged particle move!

So, all we need to code, if this has any truth, is that the ES force is
increased as a function of de^2/dt.  So, step one, I guess is to figure
out how to calcuate de/dt or de^2/dt.  Then try to figure out the formula
and units for the increase.

You know, if there was a speed of light delay in the information about how
far away a particle was, ah, no that would cause the increase to lag --
for it to be less force. Strike that idea.

So, two particles of the same type comming together has to climb the
energy gradient, but the faster they more, the stronger the energy
gradient! Like climbing a hill with friction sort of? But goign down
the other side we see the same modified hill.

Or rolling down into a valley, the valley gets deeper as we roll, but
climbing out, again, same valley in reverse.

But, no distortion at the top or bottom?  So it's like the sides got
wider but the top is no higher or the bottom no deeper?

This is a very odd and different effect than what I was thinking
magnatism was!

----

Fe = c^2 q1 q2 / r^2
dF = - c^2 q1 q2 / 2 r^3 dr
dr = v dot r dt

dE/dt = (- c^2 q1 q2 / 2 r^3) v dot r
[EDIT ERROR the 2 should be on top not bottom, r should be rHat:]
[And left out 1e-7 but I basically knew that]
[and E is F/q so the above is dF not dE]
[correct is: dF/dt = (-2 c^2 1e-7 q1 q2 / r^3) v dot rHat]

The math seems correct.  But the answer is not what I would expect.

Oh, no, it's correct.  If we have m, them dm/dt becomes m/s.
We had F, which is q2/s2., but our De/dt is now q^2/s^3 which is
consistent with what we should expect!

But, sign, that's a different question.

v dot r is a magnatude, not a true velociety change vector. But
if we make it the correct velocity change vector what does that
do for us?

So, E is postive, if we are --.  So the force on p1, wold need
to use (E rHat) where rHat points from p2 back to us at p1. The
other particle is pushing back at us.

if v dot r is a velociety vector, it would point back at us.
on approach but the - flips it making it backwards from what
I think we need! NO NO, this isn't the magnatism ansewr, this
is only DE!

And E will get stronger as the other particle approaches.
So DE should be postive.  Which seems backwrds.  Well, fuck that,
We can just force the signs to work as we need them to!

And then next, we need to figure out how to map DE to an
increase in force!

So DE is blah, how much force should that create?

F = v^2 q^2 / r^2 == units of(q^2/s^2)

De/dt is now units of q^2/s^3.

So to get force, we need to multipy by time, in some way.  It seems. Or,
integrate.

I have no fucking clue how to move forward from here.

Maxwells equations using a 1/c^2 dE/dT term.

How much extra attraction needs to be added?

I tink I'm stuck in a complex situation of having to do some integrals
to map the equation back to other forms and see what the answer is in the
other forms?  Like the expected force between two wires?  Or something?

But maybe I can just cheat instead and do a numerical approximation to
something the other formulas tell me how to calculate like the current
in a wire force and adjust the formula until I get the right (emergent)
answer.

Is there any way in hell that De/dt is the amount I need to add?
Or maybe just De/dt  Ake, on second worth of change?

I guess a simple two particle system where on is approaching and I can
see the force and De/dt numbers would be a place to start.

I think it's time to a flu shot.  Now.  Will put off that other work
a bit.

[3:07 PM]

================================================================================

2016-10-02 9:51 AM Sunday

Yesterday

1) Lots more thinking about magenetic fields.

2) Start to look at concepts of derivitives.  Changing mangnetic field
is said to produce electic field and changing electric will produce
magnetic.  Though this has meaning at the macro level of electronics and
electromagnets, I've stuggled to translast this down to the fundamental
level of particle interaction rules.

3) Thinking about attacking from the direction of contraction -- where
the approaching particle is nearer than it seems.

4) Noticed Maxwell's equations has curl B rule based on both current flow
and partial dirivative of changing electic field.  But many other rules
only talk about current flow.  It feels like maybe there's a problem
where current flow math is all derived from the average effects of many
moving particles at different distances and fails to correctl capture
individual charge motion.  And that the places where individual charge
motion has been explained in a formual it was derived from the current
flow laws and not from real individual partile interaction!

4) Came up with idea of using dr/dt which produces de/dt to define
magnatic force.  That is, how fast the two prticles are approaching
each other.  Change in relative approach speed.  But them adjusted for
1/r^2 to create chagne in electic vield over time.  That is, the rate
at which the electic field force is changing is what defines how much
magnetic force there is!  And, that the magnetic force is in the same
direction as the ES force.  This is similar to what length contraction
does but not the same -- the angle of force is slightly different.


5) Calucated the basic formula for de/dt as:

dE/dt = (- c^2 q1 q2 / 2 r^3) v dot r

[Later edit, maybe v dot rHat instead?]

But later I learned that E is F/q.  So the above with both charge
values is really DF/dt, and De/dt is the same with one less q.

Signs however are odd and not correct.  The movement needs to always
make the force increase in the same direction it already was in.

But haven't coded it.

And I'm lost as to how to map de/dt to magnetic field increase.

6) On approach is determine the formula numerical so it matches
the current rules.  Second is integrate the above over an
infinite wire to get current laws, then adjust to make it produce
the standard current laws formulas.

7) Cool thing of this formula is that it makes passing ep paris
pull together more, but, there is NO EXTRA PULL when they are
at 90 deg to each other (de/dt = 0 at that point)!  This is
key for making electron orbits work nicely and not circule down
into deadly tight orbits way over the speed of light!  And I
think this way of implementing magnatism might tend to force
eleptical orbits into circular orbits -- which could be very
important for stablity and symmetry effects!

Today

Phil will be at forge with Jeff. Said I'd swing by.  So I need
to go do that soon.  Like now. But wanted to get notes started
for the day.  Wanted to go get a pumkin spice latte as a special
treat for the morning!  Haven't been to starbucks in a while.
Checking app -- sept 25 was last visit.  That was one week ago.
Last Sunday.  Took vitamans.  Had a banana.

My darn scale is acting wierd.  Showed first weight at 217 something.
Even getting off and back on.  But a few tries later, it showing
222 range.  Way inconsistent for some odd reason.  But my weight
is looking good this morning despite the pizza and hot pocket
over consumption last night!

Wanted to do a first quick code of the new magnetism formual
just to get started before leaving to forge.

---

Wrote first verson of Force3() basedon de/dt concept.

No time to test and debug.  Must run to BGOP

[10:40 AM]

idea; need to write esForce() function to caluculate es force
between to particles instead of using addForce.  So as to
help debug this mag force3 idea...

----

[4:33 PM]

Oh god help me. I'm posting too much political and economic comments
on facebook!

Got back from BGOP visit.  Then got lost in facebook.

Got to get back to physics!

Ok, going to look at the numbers the new code is producing to see if it
looks correct.


---

Wrote code to test basic dr/dt and df/dt.  Dr/dt was wrong due to not
using rHat.  dt/dt is just way off for unknown reasons.  Need to check
what I calcuated as the derivitave.

----

[6:45 PM]

Ok, chased down two problems.  I was using r instead of rHat.  In my
paper note scribling I had it right, just not in the document here.

Second, I just left out parentesis on / (2 * r3).

Thrid, the -2 from r^-2 needed to be on top instead of bottom so
this made it off by a factor of 4.

So, dr and dF is now looking correct for value.  Now I need
to check signs in different configurations.

----

BTW, dt/dt / c^2 is producing a value that is in the ballpark of
the ES force.  But too large.

--

Checking with 45 deg motion, and I see dr/dt is all wrong.
It's not just v dot rHat. It's far more complex than that.
Drat.  Gota do some math now...

---

Ok, fuck. Stupid me. dr/dt is JUST v.  Not v dot rHat.  OMG am I stupid!

And it's a fucking vector. So df/dt works ot to be a fector a well,
and DOESN"T POINT THE SAME WAY AS rhat!

So when we base magnetic force of df/dt, it doesn't just making the es
force fector longer or shorter, it makes it MOVE direction as well!

Ok, so I don't have enough experience thinking in vector calculus terms.
I need to work on this some more.

Changing to a vector, I'm getting a little btter answers.  But df/dt
is still a little odd.  when p0 is moving  up and to the the right,
and p1 is to the right, and not moving, then dF/dt needs to point right
and DOWN.  Relative to p0, the next force vector will be longer (beause
we are closer) and slightly down to the right. So the df/dt will be down
and to the right. If this is done correctly!

No, if p and e, then force for p0 will point towards me! So next is up
and to the left for df/dt. My signs seem reversed.

Ok, so I have to look carefuly at signs in both test code and debug to
see if it's all working correctly!

But this is cool.   That the df/dt will be a different dirction than es
so when we add them, it will be more than just a change in magnatude.
Which sounds like what length contrcation was' asking for!  I'll have
to check and see if this is moving the force in the same direction as
length contraction would.

---

Oh, finished watching firefly, and watched the Serienity movie
last night!  Still got a few more episodes to go for Angle.

Then the Josh stuff will be all done.  Got to go finish person
of interst, then there's blacklist.  Which I might not need to
watch.  It's new and I was just watching the first seeason+ I
had missed.

Need food and TV now.  Will get back to vector calculs later..

[7:30 PM]

================================================================================

2016-10-03 10:37 AM Monday

Yesterday

1) Write and debug new df/dt code.  Found many errors.  Including a big
conceptual error in that I thought I was talking about df/dt but was
actually talking about |df/dt| -- just the change in magntude of df.

2) Wrote test code to help debug the df/dt code to do 1)

Today

Finished Angel TV series yesterday.  So that completes the Buffy, Angel
and firefly treo.

Physics

Well, I have to think about what I want to be calucating now.  Is there
a use for df/dt vector?  Or should I go back and implement the change
in magnatude idea?

First though, I think I want to continue to debug the code to make sure
I'm calucating the vector version correctly.  And I want to make sure
the sign is correct.  Then when I feel I understand the vector derative
I can consider the theory of what I want to do.

With the vector, it's no longer zero when the particles pass.  In fact
it might be at it's largest value at that point.  So this is not the
cool idea I was looking at at all.

----

Reviewing http://cds.cern.ch/record/920085/files/0601028.pdf

Whicih is "Relativistic derivations of the electric and magnetic fields
generated by an electric point charge moving with constant velocity"

I learned that Beta is v/c in special relativity.  So 1-b^2 is just
talking about 1-v^2/c^2.  I didn't understand that when looking at
this document before.

And it has a formula for the magnetic field as:

B = V x E / c^2

Which I didn't understant. but seems to be defining what the magnetic
field at any point is, based on what the Electic field at that point
is, where V is the movement of the charged particle that created the
electic field!.  And that this simple formula works under relativity
as well.  But the calcuation of E, is more complex under reltivity due
to contraction.

But I'm still confused about what frame of reference this is all
measured in.

Then, I'm assuming, if we know E and B at that point, then we can
calculate the force on a charged particle at that same point, baesd on
E and B and the motion of that particle.

So, let me look at this formula for B and comprae it to the other ones
I've seen and tried to code!

--

Ugh.  Ok, it all seems to just go back to the same formuals I was already
trying to use before. (but which never included relativity adjustments).
And still, I don't grasp any of it.

If we take the frame of referece to be p1, and p2 is moving, them we
can say p2 is generating an electic field and at p1, there is a magnetic
field from p2 motion. But that since our velociety is zero, the magentic
field creats no motion on us.

Again, this might be me failing to understand how all this is expected
to work. I already decided to assume that if p2 is moving and creating
a magnetic field, it would be valid to think of this as if the magentic
field was moving relative to B1.  And that we were moving though it,
and as such, there would be force.

But damn if none of this makes sense.

But, that new page is making it very clear that relativistic calcuations
would cause E to warp and not remain the same magnatude or direction!
Which makes B warp as well.

And, I still hold on to the idea that all this might only apply to macro
level electomagnatism where the fields are being transmitted from particle
to particle which creates the time delay effects that need the complex
relativistic adjustments.

But the non-relativistic concepts still seem bogus since they apear to
not work when we shift frames of reference.

What I'm I faling to understand????

All the moving point charge crap seems to be extrapulated from current
flow, which is NOT moving point charges.  It's paired charges moving
in opposit directions.  The WIRE with the fixed postive charges sets
the frame of reference by which the electomagnatism equations seem to
be based.

So two parallel electon charges creating current flows each create
magnetic fields, and their wires pull together due to the electons moving
in those cross generated magnetic fields.

---

Ok, well, shit. Looking at signs of df/dt stuff, I see it's wrong.

Which I've traced down to the fact that there is a deeper problem than
just a sign problem.  The true force vector equation is a function of
r/|r|^3.  And I must take the deriviate of that and them multiply by v.
But I have no clue how to do that!  I guess I technically have to (or
could) break it down to three problems for each axis, x,y,z and do three
different partial derivitavge.  Yeah, that should work and I should be
able to figure that out.  The tricky part is that length of r cubed part.
Going to make the derivitvae messy.

Ok, I think I know how to attack it. And I think I don't care.

Because this doesn't look like a valid direction to take anyway.

But my other idea I'd like to still try -- which is to just look at the
d|e|/dt and make the streigth of E increase as some linear function
of d|e|/dt.  I have no real science to justify this approach -- but it
looks like it might be a good fit for creating the emergent properties
that do fit the science.

And if I find evidence that it creates emergent properties that seems
close, I can more carefully analize the math of this as well as the
experimental results of mumerical tests.

----

Oh, crap.  Tried to code Force4 to go back to the previous idea of
calculating d|E|/dt.  But it look like I have the same complex
problem from above of mapping dV as a vector into d|r| as the
derivitave of the change of the length of r.  My r dot V trick
isn't going to cut it.

Ok, I feel like it's time to get out of the house and go do pizza.

Oh, wait, maybe r dot V does cut it!  let me try to code that.

I'll attack this later.

---

Ok, coded using r dot v.  Might be working.

But just had another idea.  Maybe I should just adjust the force of E
by 1-v^2/$^2.  Oh, no, that fails to get the de=0 when side by side.
But, I could just calculate force and direction of E based on length
contraction in the direction of motion and that WOULD create the right
effect and be consistent with ideas I've read.

The Heaviside equation for E from

http://cds.cern.ch/record/920085/files/0601028.pdf

Just seems to adjust the strength of E but not the direction based on
relative speed. It's a little complex due to the use of sin2(theta)
as well.  But it's intersting that it has NO angle adjustment in the
equation.

But, if i'm reading it right, the strength drops to zero as the speed
nears the speed of light impying the B field gets stronger as the E
drops I think.

I'd have to plug in some numbrs to understand what the equation is
really doing.

Maybe the best approach here is just the simple one.  Get the es vector,
and calucate magnetic addition based on v dot r speed!

----

[8:33 PM]

Went to pizza.  Played some pokemon.

Left a few tests running with the new strength adjusting code.

Behavior is hard to understand.  But one test with 2p2e got into a
1e9 velociety tight orbit for one ep pair with the other electon far
away from the proton. And the simulation is so slow at that speed it's
going nowhere.

Nothing immedialy intersting has fallen out of this new type of magentic
logic. I'm not seeing orbots turning circular so much for example.
But more testing is needed for sure.  And I really need to code a magnetic
test that fakes current and see if if a particle moving in the field
acts corrcetly.

================================================================================

2016-10-04 9:47 AM Tuesday

Yesterday

1) Learned that Beta (symbol in equations) in relativity was a reference
to v/c.

2) Studyed the article on deriving E and B using relativity adjustments
and was able to understand a little more.  But I still don't really
understand it and I don't understand how the equations all work together
to explain total force without creating the same imbalance of force I
keep running into.

3) Tried to finish coding Force3 using true df/dt concept and realized it
was far more complex than I realized.  My derative was not fully corect.
Probably need to create a different partial derative for each axes
I'm thinking.  Gave up on that path for now.

4) Codeded Force4 to try and implment orgianl idea of changing strength
of ES only based on relative velcoiety.  But even that ran into some
issues. But I got a verson coded.  And have run some tests.

5) Added max velociety test to see how fast paritcles were really moving.
In one overnight test of the code, an electon got into a super fast orbit
of 13c.  Not limiting to the speed of light clealry.  Maybe that's not
bad? But it certaonly does create real compuational problems since it
slows down the simuation to a stand sill.

Today

[1:25 PM]

Got serisoly distracted posting to facebook again about the future. That'a
where there are 3 1/2 hour gap beoteen starting Yesterday secion of
notes and finsihing them just now!

So, this cversion of Froce4 isn't doing anythihg intersting in the
simulation.  But I want to look at it and test it to see what it's
really doing.  How much froce increase is it creating?  is it really
zero at 90 deg Like I think?  Maybe a simpler alogirhtm would be better?
What did I code yesterday?  I don't even remember! :)

---

Ok, found out what I coded.  Mag force was just es force times the
velocity beta factor squared v^2/c^.  So when the relative motion was
equal to the speed of light, it was as strong as as the ES -- aka the
ES force would double.  But for less speeds the ES force was changed less.

But, there was no limit to this -- so when v as greater than c the force
just keept getting larger.  The hope was that the dynamics of the system
would prevent that.  But that didn't work since I saw a 31c number or
wathever it was...

Nice and simple code.  But I'm not seeing electipcal orbits turn into
circles. Maybe my thinkihg is just wrong on that. Maybe all they do
is turn into a different (fater) SHAPE, but not progress to more and
more circular?

Other issue, this seems to be changing the very nature of the ES field
so my energy conservation is probably broken.  Which could mean by
energy adjusting code is preventing this from doing what it should
be doing.

Let me set up a fixed static test of an electron in orbit and trest
with energ adjusting on and off!

----

[2:30 PM]

Ok, test with on electon orbiting one proton.  With energy adjust
and without.  Without magnatism, and without energ adjustments,
the system was losing energy and the orbit was getting smaller
over time. It also drifted around the proton like a sprigraph.

With Magnatism, it was ganining extra energy and the orbit was getting
larger and larger.

There was no tendency of the orbit to become more circular that I
could spot with magnatism. Just accumlated simulation errors.

I could change how energy adjusting is working.  I can look at
starting and ending force of each particle, and adjust it's velocity
to match it's ending force. Instead of calucating total potential
energy and total kenetic and spreading the kentic energy over all
particles.  In fact, it feels to me that doing it particle by
paritcle is the correct appaoch anyway.

Aren't I already doing that?

Ah, yes, I think I am, but what I'm doing is assuming the path of
the particle causes it to see linear change in force from the
starting to the ending velociety.  So I calucate a new end based
on the last ending force.  But I never then close the circle
by just setting the velcoiety to fix the ke difference.  I don't
think. So I should try that.  It should allow the system to not
lose enrgy but yet not assume that total PE+KE is a constant!

----

Checked energy code.  Realized the problem.  Energy change is the line
inergal of df * dl over the path the particle takes.  You can't calculate
true energy change by looking at force difference between start and
end alone.  You have to look at distance as well, but you can't assume
straight line path.

In the case of 1/x^2 the path isn't important but when the magnetic
effect cuases the force to varry in more complex ways, the striaght line
path doesn't work correctly.  So knowing the ending force and location
is not enough!

BUT, I already had code to calculate ending velocity based on current
estimated ending position and ending force.  But I wasn't calling it
one last time. I would update velcoiety, then update psotion.

So I added one extra call after the itteration loop to update velociety
based on new force to reduce energy error.  And that works pretty good --
not perfect, but pretty good.

Wait, why isn't it perfect for non magnatism runs????  Shouldn't it be?

Now I'm confused again.  But, oh, wait, we are dealing with the sum of
many different forces from many different moving particles.  Oh, yeah
the potential energy is based on distance, but forces cancel out when
distance doesn't.  So it's all very complex I think.

Maybe.  Or maybe I'n not really calculating ending energy as accuratly
as I should be????  Potential energy is just kqq/d.  And force is kqq/d^2.
Why can't I just look at the change in force and deduce what the change
in energy is assuming conservation of energy?

Ok, lets look at this..

Assume force has chagned by df.  So assume distance chagned by dr.
If starting d was ds, then ending d can be calculated can it not?

df = kqq/de^2 - kqq/ds^2

df + kqq/ds^2 = kqq/de^2
de^2 = kqq/(df + kqq/ds^2)
de = sqrt(kqq/(df + kqq/ds^2))
de = sqrt(kqq/(df*ds^2/ds^2 + kqq/ds^2))
de = sqrt(kqq/((df*ds^2 + kqq)/ds^2))
de = sqrt(kqq*ds^2/(df*ds^2 + kqq))

Oh, gee I'm lost. what am I trying to find?

Ok, given ds, de, and df, can we calculate dE (chagne in energy)
and will the ds and df drop out making it only a function of
df? That's what I'm trying to figure out...
this is working.

A change in force just fails to define true potential energy change
becaue it's related to distance as well.

Oh, fuck, so lets drop out ds and de and just ue change in distance
dd?

Pig wnats a package to post office. Got to run now.

----

Also, the new "fix ending velociety" code has blow up multiple times
cauusing out of control flying paritcles!  That's not going to work,
though I don't know why it happaned.

----

OH, fixed max energy error! It was using the max error seen ebfore
adjusting dt and redooing it!  Fixed it to show the max error actually
USED in a move!  It's much better now!

I had always been surprised by how high that got!

----

[8:36 PM]

Mailed package for Pig. Salid at pizza.  Pokemon!  Installed myself at
the leader on the freeman house as the 10th player!  It seems the blue
have controlled this gym for weeks.  It will be intersting to if it stays
up and for how long -- might actually get to collect real coin for it!

Then played some with emulator and enrgy conservation.

SOmething odd is at work. It blows up with velociety hitting something
absurd like 83489348394 c..  So huge numer like like that.

This is with energyFix turned off. But with energyFix2 on.  Or off.
With magntic on, or off.  Wihtout energy fix, it seems to randomly
blow up.  I have no idea what sort of condition is causing it.

I've turned erngyFix back on, and so far no blow  up. But max speed
is showing 22c.  Which indicates something is sort of odd.  And inside
RLimit is 0.  So it didn't fall into the middle.

In fact, I don't know howit could reach the higher speeds and not mess
up the energy totals.  Maybe 22c is not too high to do that?

I do wonder if I've added a bug somewhere today. Did a quick look
at the diff from yesterday and nothing stood out.

I guess I should check out an older verion and test to see if it's
acting the same -- like does it blow up with energyFix turned off.

But later. Time for snacks and TV now.

================================================================================

2016-10-05 6:33 PM Wednesday

Yesterday

1) Stuff

Today

Spent most the day posting to a physics post by Eray Ozkural about quntum
mechanics and sharing my ieas form this work.  And being told by a Robert
Brown who knows phsics (taches it I think he said) that I was crazy. Just
normal stuff.

But on this page:

http://academic.mu.edu/phys/matthysd/web004/l0220.htm

That is "Magnetic Field of a Moving Charge" it comes up with the answer:

FB/Fe = v^2/c^2

.. of two protons moving in parallel at the same speed.

Which is cool just in the fact that it supports this idea that the
magnetic field force is the same as Fe except based on V instead of C.
So that the strength of the magenetic field, will just increase with
force as velcoiety approaches C.

But as is true eleswhere, the formulas from this page make no sense for
free particles because the frame of reference defines whether there is
a magnetic field or not.

But, if we assume this is correct but that the real magnetic effect
is crated in a wire by the ions not moving, vs the elctons that are
moving, then the attraction between the moving elctons in one wire
and the stationary ions on the other, is what causes the wires to pull
toether. We have to assume that the magnetic force is causing the pull
to get stronger.

================================================================================

2016-10-06 1:10 PM Thursday

Yesterday

1) Not much. Long post to facebook about physics that did nothing but
get me laughed at.  :) Typical.

Today

Thoughts.  This morning in the shower, I was thinking about the fact that
a changing magnetic field will produce a current.  And that I haven't
spent as much time thinking about that as I should.  And they way to think
about that is that the expanding magnetic field of the increasing current
is making the line of flux "move" outward through the parallel wire next
to it.  It's as if the wire is moving THOUGH a fixed magenetic field.
Which induces a current.

So a (logically) postive curent that is increasing in one wire, will cause
an increasing magnetic field moving outward.  If the postive flow is to
the right, then the lines of fux are up in the wire above the first one.
And when the lines move outwar, that's as if the postive charge carriers
are moving in towards us.  Which with the right hand rule, means it
induces a current to the left -- opposit of the direction of flow --
all as expected.

Changing current induces a reverse flow in the other wires.

What particle to particle interaction is needed to explain that???

I'm feeling as if NO interaction at the particle level can explain that?
Am I crazy?

So we can't just look at the current velociety of a particle, to explain
a different behavor for. We must look at the acceleration of the particle.

So two wires side by side. One with constant current, the other with
none.  There is no net force at work on the wire with no current in
this exmaple.  So even though the electons are moving in the one wire,
relative to both the electons and protons of the other wire, there is
no net forced induced.  But we can write this off by saying there is net
force induced on both the electgons and protons, but in opposit directions
so they cancel out and cause no current or no movement of the wire.

But, if we add acceleartion to the current flow, then it all changes!
Acceleration to the current in one wire, causes inverse accelerataion
in the other wire?  Is that what has to happen?

I've seen talk that implies a changing E field causes a chaning B field.
But in this case of accelearting current in one wire, there will be
no change to the E field in the other.  Ugh.

Well, unless in order to accelerate the current, the "pressure" has
to increase, meaning the charge density of electons vers protons
has to change?

Well, shit.  So, constant difference in parallel motion, seems to indicate
that opposit paticles must pull together (aka increase E force).  But
accelerating difference, does something else?

Somehow, the magnetic field is building "energy" as it expands. So when
the current is first started, the magnetic field is fighting against
ifself in a coil and it takes time to expand and build up current. This
implies a potential kenetic link where the potental energy making the
curent movie is being transformed into kenetic energy where it is "stored".
And if we take the potental away, the magentic field will "colapse" and
produce back EMF.  Where the fuck is that energy actually stored? This
feels to me like the atoms are tricking us and strong the energy for us
somehow.  And the ability of the changing current to create energy flow
in the other wire, is something like a difference between the the current
flow and the magnetic energy store.

So this becomes a very fundamental qustion. Where the FUCK is the energy
of magnatism really being stored?  If motion creates a greater force in
the E field, we can say motion CREATES energy???  Wouldn't that be the
case if motion created an increase in force and as a result act as an
increas in potential energy store?  So then that increase in protental
enegy could work it's way to an increase in kenetic energy somewhere in
the atoms to be the real magnetic energy store?  Real energy Store of
the system?

But how, where?  How can the atoms store this energy?

Maybe the answer lies in the alignment of orbits? (instead of the kenetic
energy of the orbits?)

Like little magenets all ligned up? The orbits all fight each other
and one alightment will store more energy than another, so when the
magenetic field "buidls up" we are twisting orbits to store the nergy?
As if each is a little spring that we add energy to?

We know the orbits have some sort of quantum level desire to lock into
different energy stable configuations.  And the transfer of these stable
energy states is done by "photons" which I don't think is considered
what is at work with magnatism.

It seems as if magnatism is understood as a magical "field" that exists
in free space. Orhangnal to E.

This implies that B is just a new force like E. But that it is created
90 deg to E, based on motion.  So just back to it being a force, that
changes with velociety, instead of with distance.

But there must be something odd at work here. If the potential energy
of the E field is a force in line with the two particle, the potental
energy of the B field must be something like 90 deg out of line with the
E field. But it must somehow translate to a different form of motion?
Or something? Or what?

If sidwise motion is what defines the E field, then something really
odd happens with orbits.  The potential energy of the E field createes
an orbit, which is nothing but sidewise motion.  We can't use that
latteral relative motion to add more potential energy, or else it will
only cause the orbit to get faster and tigher won't it?  OR WILL it?
If sidewase motion causes the E field to get stronger in the direction
of the E field, then it will push the orbit OUT.

OH, WRONG. The ep pair is pulling together!  So if an increase in lateral
motion causes more pull, it only causes the orbit to spiral down out of
control.

Oh, but what if sidewise motion causes an increase in lateral force
at 90 deg to E field? So that a circular orbit will cause the e to
try and spin faster -- throwing it out of obrit???

Somehow, the effect of the B field, has to be a separate energy store
from the normal E field.  So hum, if the e field is creating a
circular orbit, what if the B field is trying to twist that orbit
sideways?  Making the particle turn in it's orbit? 

AH AH AH AH....

If the e field is making it rorate around one path -- say around the
equator, the B field could be trying to make it roate on a polar orbit
(so to say) 90 deg out of line.  Then these might somehow act if they
are two spearat orbital kenetic energy stores?

And this could create maybe something like stable figure 8 sorts of
orbital patterns as the two orbital forces lock into even mutlipels of
each others frequency?

Or maybe just a wobble back and forth in an orbit, or a spiriling pattern?

This is REALLY soundling like it's heading somewhere!

SO if it's in an orbit, left to the right as we draw it, then the B
field is working to make it spin up or down in the obrit?  90 deg to
the direction of travel!s

Ok so in a stable orbit, the E field is not changing, it's constant.

But the B field needs to be added to make it turn.  The current rules
for EM don't seem to work in that dimention.

Ah, but wait, what if it made it dive in and out instead to create the
extra dimenstion?  Might that work?  I feel like there has to be an
effect here at work that stores kenetic energy at 90 degs to the normal
orbial kenetic energy.  if that is in and out, then the orbits get all
fucked up.  I feel that can't work. I feel it must be up and down intead
turn left and right.

So, this implies, that latteral relative velociety, needs to make the
pair TURN!  Just like the direction of the Magnetic field, but not like
the force it is SUPPOSED to be creating!  Something very different from
anything I've seen described, but yet a close cousin to the same ideas.

Ok, so if in a stable circulare orbit created by E, then B will make the
particles turn, but not change the distance away from each other, so it
will not change the kenetic energy of the orbit. It wil "spin" in orbit.
Or something cool like that hopefully.

But when it's not a circulaure orbit and not perfectly 90 deg to the
direction of travel, then what?

I guess making the B force 90 deg to V and 90 deg to R is the right
answer.  But how strong?  Should the velociety be reduced by the
angle of R?  (sin theta, vxr)?  It feels to me maybe it shouldn't be.
That would create a force that changes in what intutively feels like
odd ways as it orbits in an electicpal orbit. An eleptical orbit
will change due to velcoeity, but if you add vxr then it's max at
the two ends, but weaker on the sides.

Could try it either and and just ee what appehs.

So, attempt one.  Just add a force that is vxrhat in direction, but the
strength is proportial to v^2/c^2 relative to E.

----

Ok, wrote a first cut at the new idea.  magneticForceTotal5().  coded
vxr becuase it was eaiswer then coding v^2 * vHat x rHat.

But, ran into problem.  The direction of the force is not equal
and opposit!  So the force for an e and p in orbit. both push in
the same direction!  I can invert based on the sign of the charge
of "my" side.  That will fix the issue for e p pairs but it will
stll be broken for ee and PP pairs!

Or will it?  That's how mag fields work is it not?  an - particle
spins left, and + will spin right in the same "field"?  If the
other particle is a different sign, the field inverts.  So - +
will spin down, -- up,  +1 spins up, ++ down.

BUT, this means not equal and opposit and that seems impossibly wrong.

Well, fuck code and test anyway..

---

Ok, flip baesd on one side.  That doesn't have the effect I expected
it to.  The electron is pushed one way, the proton the other, and the
net effect is still a stable orbit, with a slight offset to the centr of
the orbit I think. As if the sun was high or low in the center slightly.

THe B field is not creating or changing the orbit.  The concept seems
spot on. The implmentation fails to implment the concept however.
And totally fails on ee and pp.

So, here's another idea.  The B field just pushes the orbit from one
orientation to another.  So on a single orbiting ep pair, it will have
no effect. But two pairs will effect each other. Like magnets and cause
the orbital rotation to align.

So, maybe.  Two ep pairs, in parallel syncronied orbits are locked in and
have no B force changing them. But if they are at 90 deg to each other,
they try to flip each other?

So this goes back to normal b formula.  The e in the orbit is creating a
magnetic field just like current in an electomagnet. The opposit polls
attract making them line up in syncronized pariall orbits sharing a
common axes.

Hum, but if b is a fuction of V, and electons move faster, they would
be creating more B effect than protons?

This concept is lost when we use the relative velociety becaue we
aren't assigning one velociet to one and not the other. But we could
take relative revelcoity and assign to both to create equal and opposit
monumum to get a velcoeity spread across the two -- making the faster
moving one the electron dominate the force?  Seems ver made up instead
of simply jusified, but it's a thought.

But, in truth, the protons will have lower relative velcoeity to each
other and the electons higher relative to each other on average. So
the system will pick up that fact even with only relative velocties
being used.

----

Some thnking with my feet up on the desk (waiting for pig to get
ready for 4 pm noodles were going to do at noddles and comapny
where t's not 5:30 and we still haven't left).

If to approaching particles causes B force in one direction, and
to retreating paricles cause B force in the opposit, might
that cause the orbit to spin? So b force is more like b dot r
instead of b cross r?  Well time to eat..

================================================================================

2016-10-07 2:46 PM Friday

Yesterday

1) Thinking about the fact that changing current induces voltage force
in wire and whether my thinking included this in the past?

2) Idea of how magnatism could cause orbits to turn without changing
kenetic energy of normal orbit.  That is, an electron in an equator orbit,
could turn left and go into a polar orbit.  Or if it KEPT turning, would
be in a new orbit in an entire new dimenstion from the normal orbot. And
this "new dimension" could be seen as a serpate store of kenetic energy
than the defult orbit!  Just thinking about how magnetic force translates
to kenetic energy that can in any way be seen as a "different" kenetic
energy story than the E field.

3) Tried coding magneticFoceTotal5() to play with the ideas above.
Turned out it didn't work at all as I was hoping.  vxy creates a force
on the electon and the proton in the SAME direction so they don't blance.
Violation of conservation of energy.  When I cheated and flipped based on
sign of charge, it still didn't create a complex orbit as I expected --
because the force stayed in the same direction the whole time pushing
the entire orbit to the side, not turning it into a spinning orbit.

4) Robort answered my questions on facebook about EM.  He was well aware
of how EM seems to violate newtonian physics.  his answer seems to be
that yes, you need relativity to understand it.  It doesn't work under
newtonian physics.  He recogmended a text book, which I found on Amazon
for cheap and ordered.   I'm just going to have to work my way though
all the math and learn it!

Today

Went to forge this morning with Phil.  Tried a quick loop forge weld
and cut end of a fire poker.

================================================================================

2016-10-08 1:48 PM Saturday

Yesterday

1) Chatting of Facebook about phsyics with Robert who is trying to nicely
point out how stupid I am and how totally wrong my theories are.

2) Found software to make a movie of my simulation running and post it
to facebook!  That's cool.  Made a movie of how one electon can make
two protons hold together.

3) Had to pull out an older verison of physics.ph to make the movie because
the new one seems broken.  Even turning magnatism off, particles are flying
around in strange ways at times.  Clearly, I've broken something.  I suspect
in my attempt to chagne the energyFix code. But maybe just a simple typo
or accidently deleted line. Need to track THAT down now.

Today

Been posting more to this same facebook thread on a Eray post that Robert
Brown from Duke has been sharing with me.  Just trying to justify my
reserach direction with them -- Robert is not buying it (he has tons of
real phsics experence and teaches it at Duke).  Eray, well, not convienced
or interested, but not as negative.

I've had some new insights that are highly helpful from these debates.

One, to really understand electomagnatism, we must understand the
relativity implications.  I was thinking that since magnatism is a
macro level obvious force, that we should be able to understand it for
low speeds, using newtonian ideas of magnatism.  But that wasn't work.
Then I had a personal moment of enlightenment.

The electrostatic force is HIGHLY powerful.  It's HUGE.  And the only
reason we don't see it much at our macro level, is because all the
electons and protons are balancing each other out.  So when we see
magnatism show up, it's NOT a large force relative to electrostaic
force -- it's just a very small amount of force that is "leaking out"
of the sytem due to space time distortions of relativity!  You can't
explain it, without the space time distritions of relativity (at least
in simple terms of magnatism).

So that helps me understand why the formulas of magnatism don't translate
so easity to particles. It doesnt' invalid the idea that there ARE
formuals at the particle level to explain it, but that what we see at
the marco level we describe as magnatism, is not the exact same thing
we see at the macro level of particles.

So, I've ordered the text book, and oepleully, it will be at a level
that I'll be able to understand and work through.

But, in the meant time, I think it is still 100% valid to keep seraching
for an alternate implemention of particle to partical magnatism.

In fact, it could well be that magantism as we know it, when created
by current flow, is really a complex manipulation to the stable state
of atoms -- twisting all the orbtial patterns in a way that create the
combined total effect we know of as "magnatism" external, even though
how the current flow interacts wtih the probits, is a more complex issue
(on total detail, maybe easy in abstract ideas one understood).

---

So, I need to hunt down the bug in the code and fix that.  But first
some abstract thinking about particle level magnatism.

So, I really really like this idea that magnatism is a force that is
working on particles in a way that creates a duality of potential enery
effects on orbits. So instead of the 1 dimention effect of classical
gravity or it's parallel here, the electic force, magnatism addes a
second dimenstion.  Likely, at 90 degs to the ES force.

And the two working together created indepdenent orbital frequencies.
Like one is creating an equator robit around the earth, but the other
force is forcing it to spin in a circle doing a constant left turn,
creating a looping pattern.  Which then will stabalize into a minimum
energey configtion of either a perfect circulure orbit for the simplest
case, or a figure 8 orbit for the next case.  (maybe never a circle
actually).  Or a triple figure 8 for the next.

If magnetic force is v^2/c^c relative to electrostatic, then it could
well explain that the two orbits fall into a 2:1 orbital frequency
at a fixed velcoiety. The velociety needed to make the frequencies in
that 2:1 ratio.  And that fixed velcoeity, defines a very hard fixed
kenetic energy level that defines the quantilization of reality for us.
So, I don't know the relationsihp between velociety and orbital period
(aka frequency).  Let me go try to find that.

A = v^2/r  Where A is the acceleration of circular motion, v the
velcoiety, and r the radius of the circle.

So f = ma = ccqq/r^2 for electostatic or vvqq/r^2 for magnetic.

Hum, wait. What.  Am I doing?

Right, so the velcoetiy will be shared by both orbits.  But one aspect
of the orbit will be half as long as the other aspect.

And one aspect is contrlled by A = v^2/r in one direction, and the other
is controlled by A = V^2/r in the other.  So v has to be the same for
both, but v and and r is different in the two dimentions.

So since they share the same v, we know that one path has to be half as
long as the other, for the orbital frequencies to match up.

If the path is 2pir so the path length is in direct proportion with r.

So r has to be half the size for one.  So A has to be doube the size of
one than the other.

And since we are talking abot one electon with a fixed mass, then the
mass is the same for both, so the force has to be double.

So to create a 2:1 ratio of orbtial frequency we just need a 2:1 relation
of the forces.  So 1/2 = v^2/c^2 seems to be the answer.

1/2 = v^2/c^2

v12 = sqrt(c^2/2)

1/3 = v^2/c^2

v13 = sart(c^2/3)

V23 = sqrt(2c^2/3)

The kenetic energy of this electron is then 1/2mv^2 so K12 = 1/2mc^2/2
= mc^2/4

The quantum energy transfer however would be the difference in energy
between these levels.  So I need to calculate the absolute energy in
these levels and look at the differnces.

And, there is the issue that the proton we orbit around will be moving
and carrying kenetic energy.  And when we change v and our orbit, it
will ause the proton to change as well. How does that all work out? Where
does that energy go or not go?

I need to look deeper into this, come up with real numbers of what the
quantization of the atom might beusing this logic, and see if maps to
other phsics constants like planks constants or something???

Ok, but now, put that on hold, and fix the bug in the code...

---

[3:30 PM]

Ha, nice Trump supportor came by.  Chatted with him for 15 minutes or so.
Didn't chnage his mind, but at least I slowed him down. :)

Pig wants to go to Outback and use a coupon.  She was talking 2pm
It's 3:30.  I'm getting hungry. :)

---

[3:53 PM]

Fixed bug in code.  Wasn't a bug after all.  I had just changed the
default monumutm setting in the Random code to be 1/100 of the speed
of light for electons, from what it was of 1/1000. This made all the
paricles move faster, and "look" crazy, just because there was more
kenetic energy in the system, not becuae the code was broken.

So, a far as I can tell, all is fine there.

---

Food? Pig, where are you?

Ok, so move on to more fun ideas of magnatism.

So, what I'm thinking of, seems to imply there will be two forms of
potential enrgy in the system.  E and B.  So the B, will, like with single
particles in a magnetic field be confgiured to always add force at 90
deg to the E field. So it's potential enegy will always be a separate
dimention in the sytem to the E energy.

And it will need to be equal and opposit on both particles. Which is
different than what the rules of magntism were trying to create.

With the standard rules, movement created a magenetic force that would
worgk against the E field, or add to it, depending on how it I intrepreted
it, but never did it work at a stricly 90 deg to it.

Ok, but another possiblity is that the magnetic field, will replace the
E field, So as magnatism grows, E shinks.  That might keep total force,
and total potential energy in the system contant as it is now?  But just
point the force in a different direction, creating complex paths.  Maybe.

The other option, is that magnetic force grows with velcoeity, creating
odd distortions of energy.  But that seems consistent with how the idea
of magnatism is told.

So lets look at what we can implement.

First, review the last attempt - I don't remember what I did. in Total5().

---

Ok, total5() did the same idea I'm saying above. Sort of. vxr so the
magnetic field was 90 deg to r and to v.

But this ran into the problem that it created the same directional force
on both particles.  So that messed up equal and opposit.

So then I cheated and flipped based on sign of charge on each side,
and that made equal and opposot for EP paris, but still equal for ee
and ep paris whic again, can't work.  And even the equal and opposot
of ep pairs failed to create complex orbits.  It just pushed the whole
eplictial orbit sidewise as far as I could tell.

So, I need something more complex or different that follows this idea, but
yet works differently.  how do we make the electron "spin" in it's orbit!

One idea from before, was to use change in velocity, or chagne in E,
to drive it. So in a circular obit, there is no magenetic field. But
in an eliptical orbit, there is a magenetic field as we approach and
speed up, but as we leave and slow down, the sign of the magnetif field
flips. So up force on one half of the orbit, down force on the other.
That sure seems like it would create a complex orbit.  Or at a minimum,
make the orbit spin or something?

But, would a circular orbit be stable and be allowed to hold any
energy? Seems like it would. Feels like a hydrogen atom would be allowed
to have any energy level if that was true.  Which doesn't work.

Somehow, the non circular orbit would have to be a lower energy one,
or a more stable one.

It's possible that the stability of a hydogen atom dpends on the
enveioment it's part of (backgound noise readiation at the fixed
frequences from more complex atoms),  But it would be a lot simpler
if the answer allowed us to explain why even a lone hydrogen with one
electron and one proton had quantied orbits.  But you know, the entire
earth is filled with black body radiation from the sun and from all the
matter of the earth, so if all atoms other than hydrogen were quntized,
maybe it would totaly explain why hydrogen acts as a quantizsed atom
even when it's not on it's own?

Ok, but why not something like a complex figure 8 sort of pattern due
to magnatism force being half that of E force.  Making the lowest and
fastest orbit possible, locked into this pattern maybe? (1/2 c?)

Ok, here's an idea, fake magnatism by hrad coding a mag force that is
1/2 of E.  And see what it does to te orbit...

----

a = v^2/r for a circulare orbit. Should be able to use this to calcuate
the perfect V to force a perfect circular orbit.  f = ma, so a = f/m.  so

a = f/m

v^2/r = f/m

v^2/r = (1e-7 c^2 qq / r^2) / m

v^2/r = 1e-7 c^2 qq / r^2 m

v^2 = 1e-7 c^2 qq / mr

v = c * sqrt(1e-7 qq/rm)

Almost worked. But was a little off.  I get it. I need to calcuate r
to be the distance to the center of mass of the pair for the circle,
but r to be the distance between the two, for the force!

v^2/rCenter = 1e-7 c^2 qq / rTotal^2 m

v^2/rCenter = 1e-7 c^2 qq / rTotal^2 m

rCenter1 = r * m2 / (m1 + m2)

rCenter2 = r * m1 / (m1 + m2)

v = c * sqrt(1e-7 qq rCenter/rTotal^2 m)

ok, that seems to get it perfect but the error quickly accumulates so
the energy is bouncing around slowly.  Thought maybe the math was wrong
but it looks correct.

----

Ok, cool.  Set an e into perfect orbit around a p. Then added a bxv force
equal to the E.  It caused it to spin in an orbit that was exactly 1/4
of the radius of the big orbit!  Or it looked that way. Conical like.
That is, from the side, it started straight out out to the right, and
orbited down and to the left at 45, until is reached stragith below.
This was looking at the obit from the side so it was a strignth line
back and forth before I turned on the sidewase force.

Reducting to 1/4 just made the orbit larger, moving to the half way
between the bottom and left if you get my point.  So the spin is working
perfectly to simply cause it to drive in a circule, but staying at the
same distance from the proton.  No figure 8 effect at all.  Just two
orbits combined, which just makes the smaller circcle act like it's
offset from the proton.

SO, to create something like a figure 8, I am very much going to have
to create sytem that swiches direction of force in pattern.

Let me test this with a different stating condition and see what happens!

----

Ok, changing starting V to somthing about 1.3 slower changes the orbit
into something strange that I can't reall "see" the pattern of.  Sort of
doing a figure 8-is like of zipping in and out the proton in a slow and
strange way. This use of the extra force is causing the simation to run
really slow for some reason I don't udnerstand. But clearly something
odd about the interaction with the auto speed adjust.

So, constant force turning to one side, will cause little circular orbits
that don't circcle the whole globe, and maybe, sort of a spirograph like
effect moving around the globe if the the speed changes but force doesn't.

No figure 8 trade off at work here.  No ossolations between the two
forces at all. They are perfectly separate and they create two totally
independent orbits as I was thinking of.

But now, I'm wondering of that much independence is right!

----

Heading to outback.  But, idea.  two atoms aroudn one nucles where
each were seeking these little orbits would be intesting to see the
internaciton.

I could fake an nucleues by giving a single proton a double or triple
charge to experment with orbits of multiple electons!

----

[7:21 PM]

Back from outback.

Just had somethoughts.

Equal and opposit forces are required to maintin conservation of moneumtum
in the system.  So that's just required.

If the B force is perpendicular to motion, then it has no effect on
energy.  It only chanages direction.

So if the B force is going to to have energy effects, it's going to HAVE
TO not be perpenduclar to E force all the time!  Or, it has to change
E as well as be perpendicular to it!  Oh, wait.  Wrong.  It's not an
issue of whether it's perpendicular to E, the qustion of whether it's
perpendicular to V.

Force perpendicular to V are the ones that have no energy effects.
But if we make B perpendicualr to E but not always perpendicular to V,
then it will have energy effects!  So that might be a path to explore.

TV now..

================================================================================

2016-10-09 2:44 PM Sunday

Yesterday

1) Tracked down what I thought was a bug in code which wasn't a but.
Just turned out ot be me setting the starting monemtum of the system too
high in Random mode and causing stuff to fly around with too much energy.

2) Serach for ideas of how to implement magnatism based on trying to
create complex but stable orbits -- like figure 8 -- by having electic
field trade of against magnetic field.

3) Worked out formula and code to calculate orbital velcoeity prefectly
as part of my experments.

4) Hard coded constant Left turn magnatism to undertand what sort of
orbit it would create -- nice little circle followign constant distance
from proton.

Today

Went to forge again this morning.  Phil, Jeff, and Sal were there.
Did second loop weld cut version of fire poker.

Ideas to explore.

First, on calculating the orbital velociety, I tried ignoring the motion
of the protron and only calucated the orbit of the electon as if the
proton ws standing still.  Then decided I had to adjust to get it right
by calucating the orbits of both around the center of mass instead.
With the two moving in opposit directions.  BUT.  Maybe it produces
the same result both ways?  What's the difference between the two?
does it produce the same answer?

OK -- the answer is that it's NOT the same.  To get the velociety correct
you must actually use the distance to the center of mass and the distance
to the other particle to calcuate the ES force. And do the same for both.
It's very close -- the dfiference shows up in the 4th place, but it's
not the same.

I suspect, that maybe, this is true because the mass of each are not the
same.  If the two were the same mass, you might be able to pretend one
is standing still and the other is moving.  But then again, maybe not.
Because there's an r^2 term in there and r^2 will never be the same
as 2*(r/2)^2

But, if the mass was way different as in the earth, the difference between
the center of mass and the center of earth would be so insignificant
that the error would be hidd3en down in many significant digits.

----

Next.  Ok,

So, back to theory.  How to make E and B trade off against each other
so that it creates a complex orbit.

I sense the need for a sin vs cos effect created by differential effects
for E and B.  So, keeping r the same, worked with a B force that didn't
change the kenetic enrgy, but just made the orbit circle in fun ways
around the surface of the spher.  If we changed B over time we could
make it take a complex figure 8 or anything we wanted the same way.
Any complex path driving over the surface of the spher is possible if
we just kept B at 90 deg to R and V.  But it would have no energy effects.

We need energy to trade off.  Or distance and direction to trade off
or something.  And to hold the damn nucleus together, we need a figure
8 pattern where the electons can pass through the center!  So drawing a
figure 8 on the surface of the sphere will not hold the nucelus together.

Ok, so, yeah, when apporaching the center, we are curving left. When
running away from the center, it has to curve right! So we need to base
the direction of B on whether r is getting smaller or larger.  It needs
to be based on dr!  Or dE.  NO NO NO. That's. wrong.  When it leaves the
center, it can be curing left, but then after reaching the max outward
point, and it starts to head back, it would chagne to curving right.
That won't produce a figure 8!

Maybe a 3D figure 8 with the two ends at 90 deg to each other is a path
that can be made to work instead of a 2D figure 8?  Or something complex
along those lines?  It doesnt' feel like a 2D figure 8 is possible and
doesn't explain the trade off between E and B being 90 deg out of phase
in any way.  I'm thiking direcgtion of travel (v) is one axes, and the
other two axes are E and B effects for turning left right, and serving
up and down (ish).

With E alone, r and Velociety are trading off as it goes though an
elpitical orbit.  For a circuuare orbit, V and r are constant.

Well, if we make dE define B, were B is 90 deg to r, then we have
forces trading off in a differential oscillator.  But B needs to be
in the same plane with V, or else all it's doing it changing the path,
but not the energy.

Changing the path (but not enregy), could create complex effects where
two atoms are interacting with each other, but if all we have is one
hydrogen atom with proton and electon, there would be no real interaction
between the two.  But wait, maybe it's not that simple.  Changing the
path of an eleptical orbit, would change how fast it was diving into or
away from the atom, and that would have real effects on the E part of
the ossilation.  So, ok, maybe having B perpendicular to both V and R
might be important. I'm going to have to try this.

And then try having B perpendicular to R, but in the plane of r&v.

If B is rxv, then sign doesn't seem important. It would make the whole
system left or right handed, but produce the same overall results either
way I think. But if it's in the plane with the V, then sign has very
different effects.  Like in one, B slows down the particle making it dive
into the center I think.  And in the other, B makes V speed up, causing it
to fly outward.  So that's three basic ideas that will produce different
effects to try by driving B with dE/dt but keeping B 90 deg to E.

And I don't know how to set the strength of B relative to dE/dt.  But I
think that will work itself out in time.


----

[5:37 PM]

Got grass cut.  Need shower.  Cats begging for food.  Not their 6pm
dinner time yet!

Problem with the above Df/dt approach.  Which was the same the last
time I experimented with this. I have no clue how to map measures of dt
or DF into F for B.  I have to look more carefully at the formuals and
see if somethning insightful pops out.  Probably related to c as being
a constant.  Will do that later.  Need to shower and feed cats and think
about food first.

================================================================================

2016-10-10 8:15 AM Monday

Yesterday

1) Figured out: When calculating orbital velocity, you can't pretend
one is standing still in an e p pair, and the other moves.  Does't get
the right number.  You must use the distance to the center of the mass
for the radius of rotation, and distance to the other prticle for the
force. Then apply that to the a = v^2/r for circular acceleration.

2) Coded an idea based on Df/dt again.  Didn't know how to map Df/dt
to F.  Or Dr/dt to force.

Today

Had a few cool thoughts in bed.

First, I dod know how to map dr/dt to Force!

r dot v or r cross v produce numbers of dr/dt in different axies.
But this is not hard to map to force.  This is just v still.  It's not
a complex dr/dt.  V IS dr/dt.  And we DO knonw how to map V to f.  AKA,
1e-7ccqq/r^2 or 1e-7vvqq/r^2!  So we do know what to use!

--

Second, and more important.  If the B vector is in the rxv direction we
can't be equal and oppposit for ee and pp pairs!  There's no way with
two pairs to define which is up and which is down?  And we can't allow
them both to be up or both down becuase it violates conservation of
energy and monemtum!  But, if we do it 90 degrees to that so it's in the
same plane with r and v, then we can make it equal and opposit for all
mixes of e and p pairs!  So this forces us to keep in in the same plane!
Which means sadly, we lose the possiblity of complex 3D orbits.  But it
opens the door for more complex 2D orbits other than simple circles
and eliplses!  Could one version maybe create figure 8?

So I was thinking of multiple options to check out yesterday of how
to make B be always perpendicular to R, and decided making it in the
direction of rxv was one, or in the plane where others.  But we can no
just mostly throw out rxv direction, and just look at the options of
making it in the plane.

Wasn't I playing with this appraoch in one of my past versions and
just decided all I did was chagne the shape of the orbit to fatter.
I'll have to check what I was doing before.

--

Next new thoughts -- idea that can from the calucations of orbital
velociety.  Instead of using relative V we can pick the frame of reference
where V is distributed across the two particles, such that we are in
the frame where momentum of the two particles is zero! So we make both
particles move.  Maybe that would have helped in the application of
mangatism rules?  Giving us a velocity for both particles to define the
magnetic force on the other side?

Something to think about. Adjusting V to a zero momentum frame of
reference before applying a formula is another way to make the formula
frame of reference indepdendent.

--

Going to Deep Water Horizon movie this morning with Pig.  Maybe 9:20
showtime. So don't have time to do much this motning.  Need to get
coffee and banana and bitemens next.

----

Looking at pictures to think through vectors and signs.

v dot r, seems like it should be the key magnatude.  So this is all
90 deg to what magnatism was telling us if we do it this way!`
And it means when passing side by side, no magnetic force at all.
As in circular orbits are stable -- no magnatism.  But when
heading straight towards each other, it's maximum.

--

Oh, but crap.  We can't do that.  Because there's no way to define
direction of the sidewase force in that case! Oh, but wait, maybe
it's not that bad.  Beause this system would always be pushing
the paths away from that!   Oh, and gee, it's no different than
the problem of two particles on top of each other where we don't
know which way to push them away! It's the same problem in fact!
So, ok, not an oh crap.  Just a singularity we can't compute that
for the most part won't happen and if it does it will ony happen
for a single instant in time.  I think.  Ok not s show stopper.

--

So v dot R looks ok as the magnatude.  Which means the more they
are headed towards each other, the more the system trys to push them
apart!

Assume B sign flips when E flips.

----

[2:23 PM]

Back from movie. Wasted a few hours posting about Basic Income and the like.

Now time to get back into this coding of magnatism.

What did I implement in the past again?  Need to double check.

Ok, Total5 (A) -- add B 90 deg to velocietyt so it doesn't effect the velcoety
created by E.  It only makes it turn.

Total5 (B) -- make B 90 deg to E, but up or down, as in rxv.

Total4 -- use De/dt but make the strength of E force grow or shrink.  Not 90 deg to R.

Total3 -- first try at using DF/dt where I learned I was really thinking about d|f|/dt
but thought it was dF/dt. Unsure what direction I was trying to point B.

Total2 -- oh, gee, it's so complex and hacked I can't tell.  But one version
was ((v x rhat) x rhat) that would have made B perpendicular to r. But
the magnatude was the cross, so maximum strenth at perpendicular. I'm now
talking the same, but 90 degres different, with minimum B at V perpendicular to r.
Total2 also was attempting to reduce Fe as Fb grew larger.

Total1 -- V x (V x rHat)  Normal mag rules. Sort of. 90 deg to V with maximum
force when V perpendicular to R -- when the two pass in the night.

Ok, so it looks like Total2 is close to what I'm going to try now. But
yet vxr instead of v dot r for magnatude.  SO this does seem like yet
another variation on the same ideas. So it is something new.

So, this is force related to change in E.  Maximal B force, when the two
particles are headed straight together, or straight away from each other.
And B perpendicular to R, not to V. Sign, unclear. Will try all options.
But B in the same plane as r and V.

This is total5 (C) (another if clause in total5)

---

[4:44 PM]

Got a version of Total5(C) cvoded and running. Mangnatude of F seems
resonable.  and F dot R is zero ish.  Looks right. But I don't know what
the sign is like in different situations. That needs tobe checked and
thought about.

The orbits it is creating is somewhat normal, but also oddsly crazy
looking at the same time.  So I don't really know whta I'm looking at.

I have to carefully check signs and calucations to see if what it's
doing and if it's doing what seems to be resonable in all different cases.

And if all cases seem to be even have a resonable answer!

---

Tried inverting force.  The inverted version got locked into 32c speeds
at times so that doesn't look so good.  Back to running a random test
with the non-inverted verson. Eeven though I have no clue what direction
the current sytem is pointing!

================================================================================

2016-10-11 2:22 PM Tuesday

Yesterday

1) Coded Toral5(C) Idea.  B perpenducular to r, but in the same plane
with r and v.  Magnatude determined bx V projected onto r. (v dot r).
Have no carefully tested signs to see if they are logically constant.

Today

Need to look closerly at Total5(C) version to see how the vectors point
under all conditions of which way V points and combinations of + and -
particles.  See if it seems logically valid.

So far, running informal tests are not showing anything particular
different or existing with this appraoch.

I'm beginning to feel like I'm running out of ideas of how to implment
B without breaking basic laws of conservation.  And none of them are
so far showing signs of intersting complex orbits that could explain
how 1) the nucleus is holding together, and 2) how it's creating quantized
orbits.

But, I've not run out yet!

So, on this lastest idea of keeping B at 90 deg to E, I still need to
verifty directions and signs.  And another idea is have E reduce
as B grows.  I've not tested that either.  

Having E reduce as B grows would put a cap on orbits for sure.  I
guess.  Orbital velociety can't get too large because the E holding it
in orbit will vanish forcing it to fl out to a higher orbit.  Might
it find a stable balance point? 

Well, lets look closer at direction of vectors first.

--- 

Working through vector checking.  Got bHat wrong.  It's magnatude was
not 1.0.

--

But an idea.  If B and E interacted in a way that would cause an electipical
orbit to rotate like a spirograph at different ratios, of B and E,
cuased by different valuds of V and Kenetic Energy, then this roating
might stablize when interacting with other atoms, and that stable point
could be the cause of the spectrum quantization.

--

ugh. This simulation is doing weird stuff I don't understand.  Electons
look like they are sort of in a normal orbit, then they fly off for no
reason at all.  After getting too close to the other particle I think.
Maybe. I'm not sure.  Looks like mayne these rules are constantly adding
energy to the system? Or something.  The forces are equal and opposit. Can
it add energy in that case?

---

Looking at the behavior of this new algorithm I'm just  lost. Don't
understand what it's doing. Or not doing.

--

A thought.  We could think of B as a force which tries to balance energy
in the sytem by taking it away from the faster moving particles and
giving it to the slower moving particles.  So the effect of B is to
spread energy thoughout the sytem evenly.  Maybe?

That could maybe create some balance points?  Maybe?

================================================================================

2016-10-12 12:45 PM Wednesday

Yesterday

1) More careful checking of total5(C) version for signs and values.
Found one bug where rHatxvHat did not produce a vector of length 1 as
I falsely thought.  So I fixed that.  Make B stronger. But didn't have
much real affect on anything.

2) Spent more time thinking...

Today

Feeling a bit lost.  This last attempt didn't produce any instant insight.
It's acting in strange ways I don't understand.  And I'm left with no
rational understanding of why one direction of the B arrorw is better
or worse than another for this approach.

I still like the abstract idea of the B and E energy effects trading
off against each other.   But just not sure how to make it work.

If E expresses itself as elptical orbit of close and far from r, and
low and high V, how might B express itself as well?  AkA, E is trade off
between r and V when we take the concept of the field out of the picture.

What can B be a trade off between when we look only at the two articles
in issolaiton?  It would be very nice if a simple two particle system
of + and - would have anorbital trade off that allows even the simplest
form of hydrogen (not nutron) to have a quantum enrgy states.

So, if we assume equal and opposit forces to always maintain constant
energy and constant monentum, then we must find a more complex orbital
pattern other than a circle or elipse as the foundation of the system.

I was thikning figure 8, but I don't really understand how to make
that happen.  I was thinking polar vs equator orbit, but that doesn't
work for only one pair.  There is no orrientation of orbit for one pair.

With this last version of B, being in the plane with r and V, all we
can do is change the shape of the orbit in the plane.  That really feels
lacking when we have another whole dimention to work with that we aren't
using.  Which is why I was attracted to the idea of B being opposit of
that plane.  But then ran into the problem of having no way to define
the sign of that B when we hae two -- or two ++.  I onky works with +-.
But here's a thought.  Maybe B only works between protons and electons,
and has no effect electon to electon, or proton to proton!  Maybe the B
force needs to be understood as a different force, like gravity, is a
different force rather than just a modification to E?

Protons and Electons are fundamentally different things and there is no
requirement they always interact based only on their charge and mass.
Maybe the B effect only happens between P and E?  Doesn't feel all that
good conceptually, but doesn't feel impossible either.  Maybe there would
be a way to define B such that between an ++ or -- it just canceles out
and has no effect? That would be cleaner solution if that could happen.

Ok, but lets put that idea on hold. and go back to looking more carefully
wat what we are doing in 5(C).

---

So, if B is only acting in the r v plane, what can it do to the orbit?

Could it create a sin wave like ossolation to the orbit? That in it's
furtherest extent, turned into a figure 8 maybe even?

So if we want the orbit to have a sin wave wobble to it, that means as
the the E increases, it must shift the force from inward to outward.

Using this logic, it feels like we need to do what magntism was
telling us to do!  That is, make an increase in velcoeity, reduce
the strength of the E field.  So make dE reduce E.  Which means
make V reduce E.  And when V is c, it's reduced to zero.

Didn't I try coding this?  I keep going in circles with the ideas
so much I can't remember.  Maybe I didn't code that exactly.
So, shit, I guess I should try coding it.  And what about sign?
If E is decreasing, then the pull of ep should increase I think
to make it turn into a sin wave orbit.


